7|"Absence/Presence"|"AP "|"The aggregation method ""Absence/Presence"" returns a value that indicates if, for all components of a map unit, a condition is always present, never present, partially present, or whether the condition's presence or absence is unknown.  The exact phrases used for a particular attribute may vary from what is shown below.

""Always present"" means that the corresponding condition is present in all of a map unit's components.

""Never present"" means that the corresponding condition is not present in any of a map unit's components.

""Partially present"" means that the corresponding condition is present in some but not all of a map unit's components, or that the presence or absence of the corresponding condition cannot be determined for one or more components of the map unit.

""Unknown presence"" means that for components where presence or absence can be determined, the corresponding condition is never present, but the presence or absence of the corresponding condition cannot be determined for one or more components.

The result returned by this aggregation method quantifies the degree to which the corresponding condition is present throughout the map unit."
6|"All Components"|"ACP"|"The aggregation method ""All Components"" returns the lowest or highest attribute value among all components of the map unit, depending on the corresponding ""tie-break"" rule.  In this case, the ""tie-break"" rule indicates whether the lowest or highest value among all components should be returned.  For this aggregation method, percent composition ties cannot occur.

The result returned by this aggregation method represents either the minimum or maximum value of the corresponding attribute throughout the map unit.  The result may well be based on a map unit component of very minor extent."
2|"Dominant Component"|"DCP"|"The aggregation method ""Dominant Component"" returns the attribute value associated with the component with the highest percent composition in the map unit.  If more than one component shares the highest percent composition, the corresponding ""tie-break"" rule determines which value should be returned.  The ""tie-break"" rule indicates whether the lower or higher attribute value should be returned in the case of a percent composition tie.

The result returned by this aggregation method may or may not represent the dominant condition throughout the map unit."
1|"Dominant Condition"|"DCD"|"The aggregation method ""Dominant Condition"" first groups like attribute values for the components in a map unit.  For each group, percent composition is set to the sum of the percent composition of all components participating in that group.  These groups now represent ""conditions"" rather than components.  The attribute value associated with the group with the highest cumulative percent composition is returned.  If more than one group shares the highest cumulative percent composition, the corresponding ""tie-break"" rule determines which value should be returned.  The ""tie-break"" rule indicates whether the lower or higher group value should be returned in the case of a percent composition tie.

The result returned by this aggregation method represents the dominant condition throughout the map unit only when no tie has occurred."
4|"Least Limiting"|"LL "|"The aggregation method ""Least Limiting"" is suitable only for attributes that correspond to a programmatically generated soil interpretation.  Such an interpretation attempts to determine if a soil is suitable for a particular use.  The results for such an interpretation can be ranked from least limiting (or most suitable) to most limiting (or least suitable).  For this aggregation method, the least limiting result among all components of the map unit is returned.

The result returned by this aggregation method may or may not represent the dominant condition throughout the map unit.  The result may well be based on the limitations of a map unit component of very minor extent.  If one were making a decision based on this result, that decision would be based on the least conservative, or most optimistic, result."
3|"Most Limiting"|"ML "|"The aggregation method ""Most Limiting"" is suitable only for attributes that correspond to a programmatically generated soil interpretation.  Such an interpretation attempts to determine if a soil is suitable for a particular use.  The results for such an interpretation can be ranked from least limiting (or most suitable) to most limiting (or least suitable).  For this aggregation method, the most limiting result among all components of the map unit is returned.

The result returned by this aggregation method may or may not represent the dominant condition throughout the map unit.  The result may well be based on the limitations of a map unit component of very minor extent.  If one were making a decision based on this result, that decision would be based on the most conservative, or most pessimistic, result."
8|"No Aggregation Necessary"|"NAN"|"The majority of soil attributes are associated with a component of a map unit, and such an attribute has to be aggregated to the map unit level before a thematic map can be rendered.  Map units, however, also have their own attributes.  An attribute of a map unit does not have to be aggregated in order to render a corresponding thematic map.  Therefore, the ""aggregation method"" for any attribute of a map unit is referred to as ""No Aggregation Necessary""."
5|"Weighted Average"|"WA "|"The aggregation method ""Weighted Average"" computes a weighted average value for all components in the map unit.  Percent composition is the weighting factor.

The result returned by this aggregation method represents a weighted average value of the corresponding attribute throughout the map unit."
