                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
               MURDER CASES IN 33 LARGE URBAN COUNTIES IN THE                  
                             UNITED STATES, 1988                               
                                                                               
                                (ICPSR 9907)                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                           Principal Investigator                              
                                                                               
                     United States Department of Justice                       
                        Bureau of Justice Statistics                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                             First ICPSR Version                               
                                  July 1996                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                       Inter-university Consortium for                         
                        Political and Social Research                          
                                P.O. Box 1248                                  
                          Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
-                                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                             BIBLIOGRAPHIC CITATION                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
            Publications  based  on  ICPSR  data  collections  should          
            acknowledge  those  sources  by  means  of  bibliographic          
            citations.  To ensure that such source  attributions  are          
            captured  for  social  science  bibliographic  utilities,          
            citations must appear in footnotes or  in  the  reference          
            section  of publications.  The bibliographic citation for          
            this data collection is:                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
                 U.S.  Dept.  of  Justice,  Bureau  of   Justice               
                 Statistics.  MURDER  CASES  IN  33  LARGE URBAN               
                 COUNTIES IN THE UNITED STATES,  1988  [Computer               
                 file].  ICPSR  version.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.               
                 Dept. of Justice, Bureau of Justice  Statistics               
                 [producer],   1988.   Ann   Arbor,  MI:  Inter-               
                 university Consortium for Political and  Social               
                 Research [distributor], 1996.                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON USE OF ICPSR RESOURCES              
                                                                               
            To provide funding agencies  with  essential  information          
            about  use  of  archival  resources and to facilitate the          
            exchange  of  information   about   ICPSR   participants'          
            research activities, users of ICPSR data are requested to          
            send to ICPSR bibliographic citations for each  completed          
            manuscript or thesis abstract. Please indicate in a cover          
            letter which data were used.                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                 DATA DISCLAIMER                               
                                                                               
            The original  collector  of  the  data,  ICPSR,  and  the          
            relevant  funding  agency bear no responsibility for uses          
            of this collection or for interpretations  or  inferences          
            based upon such uses.                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
-                                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                         DATA COLLECTION DESCRIPTION                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     United States Department of Justice. Bureau of Justice Statistics         
          MURDER CASES IN 33 LARGE URBAN COUNTIES IN THE UNITED  STATES,       
     1988 (ICPSR 9907)                                                         
                                                                               
     SUMMARY: This study was conducted in an effort to better understand       
     the circumstances surrounding murder cases in large urban areas. To       
     evaluate the 75 largest counties in the nation,  33  counties  were       
     chosen. The ranking of these counties was based on a combination of       
     crime data and population data. The criteria for including  a  case       
     on  a  roster from which cases would be sampled was that (1) one or       
     more defendants must have been arrested for murder and (2) the case       
     must  have  been adjudicated during 1988. These cases were a sample       
     of about half of all those in the 33 counties studied  that  had  a       
     murder  charge  brought to the prosecutors in 1988, or earlier, and       
     that were disposed during 1988. When  statistically  weighted,  the       
     sample  cases  represent  a total of 9,576 murder defendants in the       
     nation's 75 largest counties.  Demographic information  on  victims       
     and  defendants includes sex, date of birth, area of residence, and       
     occupation. Variables are also provided on the circumstances of the       
     crime,  including  the  relationship  between  the  victim  and the       
     defendant, the type of weapon used, the  time  of  death,  and  the       
     number of victims.                                                        
                                                                               
     UNIVERSE: Murder cases  adjudicated  in  1988  in  the  75  largest       
     counties of the United States.                                            
                                                                               
     SAMPLING: The 33 counties included in this collection  were  chosen       
     by  stratified sampling to represent the 75 largest counties in the       
     nation. In counties with less than 200 murder cases adjudicated  in       
     1988,  all cases were chosen. In counties with more than 200 murder       
     cases, random sampling was used to select 200 cases.                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     EXTENT OF COLLECTION: 4 data files + machine-readable documentation       
     (text)  +  SAS  data  definition  statements + SPSS data definition       
     statements + data collection instrument                                   
                                                                               
     EXTENT OF PROCESSING: DDEF.ICPSR/ CDBK.ICPSR                              
                                                                               
     DATA  FORMAT:  Logical  Record  Length  with  SAS  and  SPSS   data       
     definition statements                                                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Part 1: Incident Data                   Part 2: Defendant Data            
     File Structure: rectangular             File Structure: rectangular       
     Cases: 2,547                            Cases: 3,144                      
     Variables: 21                           Variables: 58                     
     Record Length: 27                       Record Length: 174                
     Records Per Case: 1                     Records Per Case: 1               
                                                                               
     Part 3: Victim Data                     Part 4: Offense Data              
     File Structure: rectangular             File Structure: rectangular       
     Cases: 2,666                            Cases: 3,309                      
     Variables: 38                           Variables: 22                     
     Record Length: 94                       Record Length: 50                 
     Records Per Case: 1                     Records Per Case: 1               
                                                                               
     Part 5: Codebook for All                Parts 6-9: SAS Data               
       Parts                                   Definition Statements           
     Record Length: 79                       Record Length: 76                 
                                                                               
     RELATED PUBLICATION:                                                      
          Dawson, John N., and Barbara Boland. "Murder  in  Large  Urban       
     Counties,  1988." Washington, DC: United States Government Printing       
     Office, May 1993.                                                         
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                   i                                          
                                                                               
                                                                               
                               METHODOLOGY                                     
                                                                               
                            DATA COLLECTION                                    
                                                                               
          The 33 counties studied for this report were sampled to              
      represent the 75 largest counties in the nation. The ranking of          
      counties in which the 75 largest were identified was based on a          
      combination of crime data (1980 and 1984 Uniform Crime Report Part       
      I arrests) and population data (1980 population from the Census          
      Bureau's City County Data Book). The rankings reflected the size of      
      the prosecutors' offices. The original sample plan identified 34         
      counties, one of which ultimately declined to participate.               
                                                                               
           The murder data were collected from the prosecutors' offices        
      in those 33 counties. The criterion for including a case on a            
      roster from which cases would be sampled was that (a) one or more        
      defendants must have been arrested for murder and (b) the matter         
      must have been adjudicated during 1988. If the total number of           
      cases so identified was 200 or less, all cases were selected ;           
      otherwise a random sample of 200 was chosen.                             
                                                                               
           A total of 2,539 murder cases were studied, which yielded data      
      on 3,119 defendants and 2,655 victims. These cases were a sample of      
      about half of all those in the 33 counties studied that had a            
      murder charge brought to the prosecutors in 1988, or earlier, and        
      that were disposed during 1988. Nearly all (7 of 8) defendants'          
      cases were filed in court, rather than being terminated at case          
      screening or by being referred for other disposition (e.g. to be         
      tried as part of another case filed earlier against the defendant).      
                                                                               
           When statistically weighted, the sample cases represented           
      9,576 murder defendants altogether in the nation's 75 largest            
      counties.                                                                
                                                                               
           Virtually all cases meeting the 1988-disposition criterion          
      were disposed for all defendants in the case. Of the more than           
      3,100 defendants on whom data were obtained, only 13 had not yet         
      had their cases adjudicated as of the time of the survey was             
      carried out in 1990. Another 25 defendants had died of suicide or        
      other causes.                                                            
                                                                               
           Case weights were applied to statistics on the sampled cases        
      to convert them to estimates for the universe of the 75 largest          
      counties. These weights were computed as the inverse of the              
      sampling probability, which was the product of the probability that      
      a given county would be chosen and the probability of selection of       
      a particular case in the given county. The case weights had to be        
      adjusted to compensate for the loss of the non-participating             
      county.                                                                  
                                                                               
                                                                               
      CODING OF VICTIM/OFFENDER RELATIONSHIPS AND CIRCUMSTANCES                
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                      ii                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
           Local police report murder cases to the FBI, using procedures       
      developed by the FBI for publication of its Supplemental Homicide        
      Reports. The procedures include a set of codes to describe the           
      principal victim/assailant relationship and the circumstances in         
      which they were involved at the time the murder occurred. The codes      
      used in the survey reported here were consistent with, but more          
      detailed than, those used by the FBI. Some 79 separate relationship      
      codes and 85 circumstance codes were available for coding cases.         
      For each combination of victim and defendant in a case, the coder        
      chose a primary relationship and circumstance code, but if more          
      than one relationship or circumstance code applied, as many as           
      three could be used. For example, if victim and assailant were           
      siblings and one was also the drug supplier for the other, they          
      could be counted both in the family and drug relationship tallies.       
      Likewise a person could be counted in more than one circumstance         
      category.                                                                
                                                                               
           Among all pairs of victims and assailants found in the              
      prosecutor's murder files, a majority required only a single             
      relationship or circumstance code. The percents requiring more are       
      shown below:                                                             
                                                                               
                      Percent of victim and assailant pairs                    
      NUMBER OF       with single or multiple coding of --                     
      CODES USED      RELATIONSHIPS       CIRCUMSTANCES                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
      2 or more       8.4 %          40 %                                      
      3 codes         0.3 %          8.6%                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      RESPONSE RATES                                                           
                                                                               
           Except as noted below, the survey data used in this report          
      were obtained in a high percentage of sample cases ("response            
      rate").                                                                  
                                                                               
           The case records identified age, race, sex and ethnicity for        
      nearly all defendants (upwards of 98%). The same was true of             
      victims, except that victim age was available only 16% of the time.      
                                                                               
           Also obtained in nearly all cases were the relationships            
      between victims and defendants and the circumstances preceding the       
      homicide, as well as the arrest or indictment charge, and whether        
      the defendant was convicted, and if so, the conviction offense. In       
      incarceration or probation cases, the length of the term of              
      sentence was usually known.                                              
                                                                               
           Defendant criminal history was available in three-quarters of       
      the cases, but victim criminal history was obtained in only a third      
      of the cases. Gang membership could be determined for 80% or more        
      of defendants and victims.                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                     iii                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
           Whether the victim was armed was found in the record almost         
      always. Whether the victim was the first to threaten or physically       
      attack the defendant (provocation) was known 85% of the time.            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           The Probability Sample. The geographic jurisdiction of local        
      prosecutors is, with relatively few exceptions, a single county.         
      Thus, the geographic units sampled were counties (and in a few           
      places geographic areas designated by the Census Bureau as county        
      equivalents, e.g. independent cities with independent prosecutors).      
      Since a major goal of this project is to study the prosecution and       
      court adjudication process in individual jurisdictions, the sampling     
      frame was restricted to the 200 largest prosecutors' offices in order    
      to limit the size of the total sample and therefore facilitate the       
      intensive study of local prosecution systems. Further, the sample        
      was stratified in a way that focuses the project on prosecution in       
      major cities (a continuation of the focus of past projects), but at      
      the same time will provide reliable annual estimates of the disposi-     
      tion of felony arrests in the more broadly defined sampling universe     
      of the 200 largest jurisdictions.                                        
                                                                               
            As we are interested in estimating the disposition of adult        
      felony arrests, we conceptually define the 200 largest prosecutors'      
      offices as those with the largest number of adult felony arrests.        
      Because data on the numbers of adult felony arrests are not readily      
      available for all counties, a reasonably close approximation of this     
      sampling universe was obtained by utilizing data on 1984 Uniform         
      Crime Report (UCR) Part I arrests. Using the data on Part I arrests,     
      and correlating them with the number of felony arrests, where known,     
      will permit estimation of the number of adult felony arrests in other    
      counties, and generation of estimates of statistics concerning adult     
      felony arrests for the entire sampling universe of the 200 largest       
      prosecutors' offices.                                                    
                                                                               
            For the purpose of selecting the probability sample, we            
      obtained from the Inter-university Consortium for Political and          
      Social Research (ICPSR) Archive two BJS-ICPSR archive files which        
      contain 1980 and 1984 UCR Part I arrest and crime data organized by      
      counties. We also obtained the Department of Health and Human            
      Services' Area Resource Data File (ARF) containing 1981 crime and        
      1980 population data by county from the Census Bureau's City County      
      Data Book. Based on analysis of the arrest, crime, and population        
      data in these files, as well as knowledge of the patterns of felony      
      arrest dispositions gained from the Prosecution of Felony Arrests        
      project, we stratified and sampled among the largest 200 prosecutors'    
      offices as follows:                                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
               The largest 75 counties were divided into three strata          
               based on size and whether they are or are not prior             
               participants. Specifically, the three strata were defined       
               as: 1) prior participants with a total population of one        
               million or more; 2) all other prior participants among          
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                      iv                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
               the top 75; and 3) all other counties among the top 75.         
                                                                               
               The remaining 125 counties were divided into eight              
               strata according to their region of the country and             
               according to whether they do or do not contain a central        
               city with a population over 100,000. Strata 4-7                 
               represent Big City Jurisdictions in the Northeast, North        
               Central, South, and West census regions, respectively.          
               Strata 8-11 similarly represent Not-Big City                    
               jurisdictions by census region.                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
            The first stratum, prior participants with a population of one     
      million or more, was sampled with certainty because large jurisdic-      
      tions are valuable for inclusion in any sample (based on variance        
      reduction) and the cost of initiating data collection had already        
      been expended in these jurisdictions. The sampling ratio for strata 2    
      to 11 were determined by calculating the Neyman (optimum) allocation     
      of sample among strata utilizing data on total stratum observations      
      and standard deviations of 1984 total Part I arrests. The size and       
      sampling rates for each stratum are indicated below:                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                            Stratum              Neyman        
                         Stratum              Size             Allocation      
                                                                               
      Top 75                 1                  10                  10         
                             2                  11                   2         
                             3                  54                  22         
      Remaining 125          4                   7                   1         
                             5                  14                   1         
                             6                  21                   2         
                             7                   9                   1         
                             8                  24                   2         
                             9                  10                   1         
                            10                  22                   2         
                            11                  18                   1         
                                               ___                 ___         
                                               200                  45         
                                                                               
                                                                               
            The higher sampling rate in the largest 75 counties is             
      necessary for obtaining reliable national estimates with a sample        
      this size. At the same time, it ensures that the overall sample will     
      include a substantial number of counties containing large cities. A      
      disproportionate focus on prosecution and court processing in these      
      counties is justified by the fact that crime and arrests for serious     
      crimes are highly concentrated in large cities. These jurisdictions      
      are also most likely to have in place computerized systems for           
      tracking felony cases from arrest to disposition and to be able to       
      provide data on a case-by-case basis in automated form. Jurisdictions    
      in the sample strata are most likely, in other words, to be able to      
      provide data that can be used to both derive annual estimates of         
      arrest dispositions and to produce detailed jurisdiction tabulations     
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                       v                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      of dispositions on a case-by-case basis without hand collection of       
      data. A number of the jurisdictions in the sample strata will thus       
      contribute to both of the major goals of future Prosecution of Felony    
      Arrests projects.                                                        
                                                                               
            The stratification of the remaining 125 counties by region and     
      whether they do or do not contain a central city with a population       
      over 100,000 was based on two important observations with respect to     
      the dispositions of defendants arrested for felony crimes. One is the    
      long-recognized difference in sentence severity among regions, which     
      is also evident in the Prosecution of Felony Arrests data. The second    
      is based on observations regarding the differences in problems and       
      prosecutorial practices between jurisdictions dominated by large         
      cities and suburban/small city jurisdictions. In the latter, a           
      smaller proportion of all crimes are violent crimes, diversion           
      programs are likely to be utilized more frequently, and the              
      implementation of office policies requires less formalized rules and     
      procedures than in big city offices, which may employ one hundred or     
      more attorneys. The stratification of these 125 counties into eight      
      strata is designed to improve the accuracy of the sample estimates       
      by reducing the sample variance resulting from regional and big city     
      vs. not big city differences in the dispositions of felony arrests.      
                                                                               
            To select the probability sample, we used the data on 1984         
      adult Part I arrests by county in the BJS-ICPSR archives file. First     
      we sorted the 3,125 counties in the file according to the number of      
      arrests shown in the file and selected the 200 counties at the top       
      of the sorted list. Some counties in the file, however, had missing      
      or bad data (usually because there was insufficient UCR reporting by     
      police agencies to estimate the total number of Part I arrests in        
      the county). Utilizing data on 1980 population and 1980 crime and        
      arrests, we identified only four counties with either missing or bad     
      data sufficient to pull them out of the top 200 by 1984 arrests.         
      These four counties were placed in the top 200. The four counties        
      with the lowest numbers of arrests were then dropped, so as to have      
      again a sampling frame of 200 counties. The 200 counties on this         
      final list were then coded on the basis of region and whether the        
      county did or did not contain a central city with a population of        
      100,OOO or more. The specific definition for the latter is as            
      follows:                                                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
                  LARGE-CITY = 1 if the county is in an MSA (Metropolitan      
                  Statistical Area) and contains a central city with           
                  population of 100,000 or more.                               
                                                                               
                  LARGE-CITY = 0 if the county is in an MSA but does           
                  not contain a central city, if the county is not in an       
                  MSA, or if the county is in an MSA and contains a            
                  central city of less than 100,000 population.                
                                                                               
            We then sorted the file by the eleven strata, generated random     
      numbers, and applied the sampling rules stated above to select 45        
      counties. Among the 34 counties selected from the top 75 in the          
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                      vi                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      sampling frame, 12 are current participants. Of the 11 selected from     
      the remaining 125, two are current participants. Thus, of the total      
      45 jurisdictions in the probability sample, 31 are new jurisdictions.    
      The new sample jurisdictions by scheduled phase-in year are indicated    
      in Exhibit 2.1.                                                          
                                                                               
            The Convenience Sample. Once the probability sample was            
      selected, the convenience sample was selected from among those           
      currently participating jurisdictions that were contained in the         
      sampling frame but were not selected in the probability sample.          
                                                                               
           1. First priority was given to PROMIS jurisdictions that have       
      been providing data in computerized form for prior projects. Since       
      we have considerable experience and expertise in dealing with the        
      computerized systems in these jurisdictions, their inclusion in the      
      sample allows the project to continue to provide jurisdiction data       
      on a case-by-case basis at a reasonable cost.                            
                                                                               
           2. Second priority was given to other jurisdictions that have       
      in place good local or state data collection systems that provide        
      aggregate jurisdiction data and also have in place automated case        
      tracking systems in either the prosecutor's office or the court.         
      Again, the inclusion of such jurisdictions allows the project to         
      continue to provide jurisdiction data at a reasonable cost and leaves    
      open the possibility of obtaining detailed case-by-case data in          
      automated form.                                                          
                                                                               
            Based on these criteria, we selected seven jurisdictions for       
      the convenience sample; six are currently providing data tapes and       
      one provides aggregate data but has recently implemented a comprehen-    
      sive court computer system. (See Exhibit 2.1)                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                     vii                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
                  Exhibit 2.1 Prosecution of Felony Arrests                    
                        Stratified - Convenience Sample                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
      1986 Jurisdictions  1987 New Jurisdictions    1988 New Jurisdictions     
                                                                               
            Top 75                  Top 75                    Top 75           
        New York, NY            Montgomery, OH             Middlesex, MA       
        Los Angeles, CA         Kings, NY                  Fairfield, CT       
        Dallas, TX              Queens, NY                 Pima, AZ            
        Erie, NY                Milwaukee, WI              New Haven, CT       
        Wayne, MI               Denver, CO                 Essex, NJ           
        Cook, IL                Kern, CA                   Broward, FL         
        San Diego, CA           Bernalillo, NM             Orange, CA          
        Dade, FL                Oklahoma, OK               Prince Georges, MD  
        King, WA                                           Monroe, NY          
        Philadelphia, PA     Bottom 125                    Orange, FL          
        Orleans, LA             Hamilton, TN                                   
        Arapahoe, CO            Westchester, N                                 
        Allegheny, PA*          Tallahassee, FL /1                             
        Riverside, CA*                                                         
        El Paso, TX*                                                           
        Franklin, OH*                                                          
                                                                               
      Bottom 125                                                               
        Kane, IL                                                               
        Adams, CO                                                              
        Hampden, MA*                                                           
        Lancaster, NE*                                                         
        Virginia Beach, VA*                                                    
        Ada, ID*                                                               
        Hillsborough, NH*                                                      
        Anne Arundel, MD*                                                      
                                                                               
      Convenience                                                              
        Colorado Springs, CO                                                   
        Indianapolis, IN                                                       
        Minneapolis, MN                                                        
        Portland, 0R                                                           
        Rhode Island                                                           
        St. Louis, MO                                                          
        Washington, D.C.                                                       
                                                                               
                     Note: *Indicates new jurisdictions phased-in in 1986.     
                    /1 Replacement for Galveston, TX.                          
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                    viii                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
            The Stratified-Convenience Sample. Implementing the new sample     
      design will require a total of 52 participating jurisdictions. The       
      table below summarizes the 52 jurisdiction sample by stratum and         
      indicates whether the jurisdiction is a current participant or new       
      jurisdiction.                                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                       The Stratified-Convenience Sample                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
               Probability    Probability                 Convenience          
               New Juris-     Old Juris-    Probability   Old Juris-           
     Strata    diction        diction       Total         diction      TOTAL   
                                                                               
     Top 75      22             12             34            6          40     
                                                                               
     Other 125    9              2             11            1          12     
                                                                               
     TOTAL       31             14             45            7          52     
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                       ix                                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                  Exhibit 2.2                                  
                  Prosecution of Felony Arrests Sampling Frame                 
                                                                               
      Counties indicated with an asterisk (*) at the end of the line are IN    
      the sample.                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     OBS FIPS COUNTY                   REGION           ARRESTS     STRATUM    
                                                                               
     1 36061 NEW YORK, NY.             NORTHEAST          19428        1       
     2 06037 LOS ANGELES, CA.          WEST              113031        1       
     3 48113 DALLAS, TX.               SOUTH              19134        1       
     4 36029 ERIE, NY.                 NORTHEAST           7431        1       
     5 26163 WAYNE, MI.                NORTH CENTRAL      29235        1       
     6 17031 COOK, IL.                 NORTH CENTRAL      39043        1       
     7 06073 SAN DIEGO, CA.            WEST               21156        1       
     8 12025 DADE, FL.                 SOUTH              34368        1       
     9 53033 KING, WA.                 WEST                9081        1       
    10 42101 PHILADELPHIA, PA.         NORTHEAST          27094        1       
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------    
                                                                               
    11 27053 HENNEPIN, MN.             NORTH CENTRAL      11192        2       
    12 49035 SALT LAKE, UT.            WEST               11420        2       
    13 44000 RHODE ISLAND              NORTHEAST           8292        2       
    14 29191 ST. LOUIS CITY, MO.       NORTH CENTRAL      14224        2       
    15 41051 MULTNOMAH, OR.            WEST                9584        2       
    16 11001 THE DISTRICT, DC.         SOUTH              10867        2       
    17 18097 MARION, IN.               NORTH CENTRAL       7680        2       
    18 25025 SUFFOLK, MA.              NORTHEAST           9868        2       
    19 29095 JACKSON, MO.              NORTH CENTRAL      11282        2       
    20 22071 ORLEANS, LA.              SOUTH               9915        2       
    21 08005 ARAPAHOE, CO.             WEST                6443        2       
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------    
                                                                               
    22 12099 PALM BEACH, FL.           SOUTH               9505        3       
    23 12031 DUVAL, FL.                SOUTH               9759        3       
    24 53053 PIERCE, WA.               WEST                6169        3       
    25 13121 FULTON, CA.               SOUTH              12053        3       
    26 48029 BEXAR, TX.                SOUTH              11082        3       
    27 06013 CONTRA COSTA, CA.         WEST                7725        3       
    28 04013 MARICOPA, AZ.             WEST               24049        3       
    29 06067 SACRAMENTO, CA.           WEST               11697        3       
    30 15003 HONOLULU, HI.             WEST                7647        3       
    31 06085 SANTA CLARA, CA.          WEST               12482        3       
    32 32003 CLARK, Nv.                WEST                8721        3       
    33 36005 BRONX, NY.                NORTHEAST          15834        3       
    34 24007 BALTIMORE CITY, MD.       SOUTH              17552        3       
    35 22033 EAST BATON ROUGE, LA.     SOUTH               6188        3       
    36 48201 HARRIS, TX.               SOUTH              26264        3       
    37 06019 FRESNO, CA.               WEST                9434        3       
    38 36103 SUFFOLK, NY.              NORTHEAST           8744        3       
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                     x                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
    39 12103 PINELLAS, FL.             SOUTH               8665        3       
    40 06001 ALAMEDA, CA.              WEST               17643        3       
    41 24005 BALTIMORE, MD.            SOUTH               7553        3       
    42 26125 OAKLAND, MI.              NORTH CENTRAL       7082        3       
    43 12057 HILLSBOROUGH, FL.         SOUTH              12046        3       
    44 06075 SAN FRANCISCO, CA.        WEST               11622        3       
    45 06071 SAN BERNARDINO, CA.       WEST               13528        3       
    46 39035 CUYAHOGA, OH.             NORTH CENTRAL      10101        3       
    47 34017 HUDSON, NJ.               NORTHEAST           7070        3       
    48 47157 SHELBY, TN.               SOUTH              10724        3       
    49 48439 TARRANT, TX.              SOUTH              12888        3       
    50 48453 TRAVIS, TX.               SOUTH               9201        3       
    51 39061 HAMILTON, OH.             NORTH CENTRAL      10243        3       
    52 29189 ST. LOUIS, MO.            NORTH CENTRAL      12035        3       
    53 09003 HARTFORD, CT.             NORTHEAST          12060        3       
    54 12095 ORANGE, FL.               SOUTH               6921        3       
    55 36055 MONROE, NY.               NORTHEAST           7725        3       
    56 24033 PRINCE GEORGES, MD.       SOUTH               7428        3       
    57 06059 ORANGE, CA.               WEST               20069        3       
    58 12011 BROWARD, FL.              SOUTH              12111        3       
    59 34013 ESSEX, NJ.                NORTHEAST          14333        3       
    60 09009 NEW HAVEN, CT.            NORTHEAST           9778        3       
    61 04019 PIMA, AZ.                 WEST                7712        3       
    62 09001 FAIRFIELD,,  CT.          NORTHEAST           8571        3       
    63 25017 MIDDLESEX, MA.            NORTHEAST           6297        3       
    64 40109 OKLAHOMA, OK.             SOUTH               8133        3       
    65 35001 BERNALILLO, NM.           WEST                6904        3       
    66 06029 KERN, CA.                 WEST                7648        3       
    67 08031 DENVER, CO.               WEST               10378        3       
    68 55079 MILWAUKEE, WI.            NORTH CENTRAL      18449        3       
    69 36081 QUEENS, NY.               NORTHEAST          25645        3       
    70 39049 FRANKLIN, OH.             NORTH CENTRAL       6596        3       
    71 36047 KINGS, NY.                NORTHEAST          30205        3       
    72 48141 EL PASO, TX.              SOUTH               6710        3       
    73 39113 MONTGOMERY, OH.           NORTH CENTRAL       6311        3       
    74 06065 RIVERSIDE, CA.            WEST                8780        3       
    75 42003 ALLEGHENY, PA.            NORTHEAST           7786        3       
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------     
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                    xi                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
               DOCUMENTATION OF SAMPLE COUNTIES IN "MURDER IN LARGE            
                           URBAN COUNTIES, 1988"                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
   (1)   (2)   (3)     (4)        (5)   (6)  (7)   (8)       (9)     (10)      
   FIPS  NAME COUNTY   CITY      STRAT CASES SAMP  WGT1      WGT2    ANWGT     
                                                                               
   4019  TUAZ  PIMA    TUCSON       3    30   25  2.454548      1.2  2.945457  
   6029  BACA  KERN    BAKERSFIELD  3    44   44  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   6037  LACA  LOS ANG LOS ANGELES  1  1020  197  1.111111 5.177665  5.752961  
   6059  ORCA  ORANGE  SANTA ANA    3    70   66  2.454548 1.060606  2.603308  
   6065  RICA  RIVERSI RIVERSIDE    3    38   38  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   6073  SDCA  SAN DIE SAN DIEGO    1    92   85  1.111111 1.082353  1.202614  
   8005  LICO  ARAPAHO LITTLETON    2     9    8  5.500006    1.125  6.187506  
   8031  DECO  DENVER  DENVER       3    31   31  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   9009  NHCT  NEW HAV NEW HAVEN    3    22   22  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   12011 FLFL  BROWAR  FT.LAUDERDAL 3   157  114  2.454548 1.377193  3.380386  
   12025 MIFL  DADE    MIAMI        1   411  126  1.111111 3.261905  3.624339  
   12095 ORFL  ORANGE  ORLANDO      3    34   29  2.454548 1.172414  2.877746  
   17031 CHIL  COOK    CHICAGO      1   433  200  1.111111    2.165  2.405556  
   22071 NOLA  ORLEAN  NEW ORLEANS  2   104  104  5.500006        1  5.500006  
   24033 PGMD  PRINCE  PRINCE GRGES 3    59   44  2.454548 1.340909  3.291326  
   25017 CAMA  MIDDLE  CAMBRIDGE    3    18   18  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   26163 DEMI  WAYNE   DETROIT      1   766  200  1.111111     3.83  4.255556  
   29510 SLMO  ST.LOU  ST.LOUIS     3    43   36  2.454548 1.194444  2.931821  
   35001 ALNM  BERNAL  ALBURQUERQUE 3    29   27  2.454548 1.074074  2.636366  
   36047 BRNY  KINGS   BROOKLYN     3   174  107  2.454548 1.626168  3.991508  
   36055 RONY  MONROE  ROCHESTER    3    31   28  2.454548 1.107143  2.717535  
   36061 MANY  NEWYOR  MANHATTAN    1   263  154  1.111111 1.707792  1.897547  
   36081 QUNY  QUEENS  QUEENS       3   148   86  2.454548  1.72093  4.224106  
   39049 COOH  FRANKL  COLUMBUS     3    28   25  2.454548     1.12  2.749094  
   39113 DAOH  MONTGO  DAYTON       3    21   20  2.454548     1.05  2.577275  
   40103 OKOK  OKLAHO  OK.CITY      3    44   44  2.454548        1  2.454548  
   42003 PIPA  ALLEGH  PITTSBURGH   3    44   38  2.454548 1.157895  2.842108  
   42101 PHPA  PHILAD  PHILADELPHIA 1   355  196  1.111111 1.811224  2.012472  
   47157 METN  SHELBY  MEMPHIS      3   103   98  2.454548  1.05102   2.57978  
   48113 DATE  DALLAS  DALLAS       1   189  172  1.111111 1.098837   1.22093  
   48439 FWTX  TARRAN  FT.WORTH     3    78   72  2.454548 1.083333  2.659094  
   48453 AUTX  TRAVIS  AUSTIN       3    36   29  2.454548 1.241379  3.047025  
   53033 SEWA  KING    SEATTLE      1    67   64  1.111111 1.046875  1.163194  
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                               xii                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                xiii                                          
                                                                               
                                                                               
                     VARIABLE DESCRIPTION LIST                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
                           Incident File                                       
                           -------------                                       
                                                                               
                    COUNTY             COUNTY                                  
                    AAI                ABT ID #                                
                    CODER              CODER                                   
                    TRNAME1            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO1            CASE NUMBER                             
                    TRNAME2            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO2            CASE NUMBER                             
                    TRNAME3            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO3            CASE NUMBER                             
                    TRNAME4            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO4            CASE NUMBER                             
                    TRNAME5            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO5            CASE NUMBER                             
                    TRNAME6            OFFENDER NAME                           
                    CASENO6            CASE NUMBER                             
                    DEATH              MURDER CASE                             
                    NUMVICTS           NUMBER OF VICTIMS                       
                    VICINCID           VICTIMS PER INCIDENT                    
                    NUMCOD             NUMBER DEFENDANTS                       
                    DEFCASE            DEFENDANTS IN FILE                      
                    CID                COUNTY ID #                             
                                                                               
                                                                               
                           Defendant File                                      
                           --------------                                      
                                                                               
                    COUNTY             COUNTY                                  
                    AAI                ABT ID #                                
                    PRIMDEFN           PRIMARY DEFENDANT                       
                    TRNAME             DEFENDANT NAME                          
                    PDID               POLICDE ID #                            
                    OFFTIME            OFFENSE TIME                            
                    RACE               DEFN RACE                               
                    ETH                DEFN ETHNICITY                          
                    SEX                DEFN SEX                                
                    DOCCUP             DEFN OCCUPATION                         
                    OFFRES             DEFN RESIDENCE                          
                    INDICT             INDICTMENT INDICATOR                    
                    CHARG1             CHARGE                                  
                    ACTVEAT1           CHARGE ACTIVITY                         
                    CHARG2             CHARGE                                  
                    ACTVEAT2           CHARGE ACTIVITY                         
                    CHARG3             CHARGE                                  
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                xiv                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
                    ACTVEAT3           CHARGE ACTIVITY                         
                    CHARG4             CHARGE                                  
                    ACTVEAT4           CHARGE ACTIVITY                         
                    CHARG5             CHARGE                                  
                    ACTVEAT5           CHARGE ACTIVITY                         
                    FINDISPO           DISPOSITION                             
                    REJREAS            REJECTION REASON                        
                    SENTIND            SENTENCE INDICATOR                      
                    PRITIME            INCARCERATION TERM                      
                    PRISON             INCARCERATION LOCATION                  
                    PROTIME            PROBATION TIME                          
                    SUSTIME            SUSPENDED TIME                          
                    PREC               PRIOR RECORD FLAG                       
                    PRANYNUM           # PRIORS                                
                    PRVIOLNU           # PRIORS - VIOLENT                      
                    PRDRUGNU           # PRIORS - DRUGS                        
                    PRCONVNU           # PRIROS - CONVICTIONS                  
                    PRPROBNU           # PRIORS - PROBATIONS                   
                    PRINCARN           # PRIORS - INCRCRTNS                    
                    PRTIME             PRIOR PRISON TIME                       
                    DSCENE             DEFN ON SCENE                           
                    PURDRUGS           PURCHASE QUANTITY                       
                    SELDRUGS           SALE QUANTITY                           
                    OALCOH             ALCOHOL PRESENCE                        
                    OINDRUG            DRUGS IN DEFN                           
                    OINTYPE            DRUG TYPE                               
                    OONDRUG            DRUGS ON DEFN                           
                    OONTYPE            DRUG TYPE                               
                    OFFMI              MENTAL ILLNESS                          
                    OFFDAB             DRUG ABUSE                              
                    ODEAL              DEALER                                  
                    OGANG              GANG MEMBER                             
                    DEFIDN             DEFENDANT ID                            
                    CID                COUNTY ID #                             
                    ARRDATE            ARREST DATE                             
                    DOB                DEFN DATE OF BIRTH                      
                    FACTDATE           DISPOSITION DATE                        
                    INDATE             INDICTMENT DATE                         
                    OFFDATE            OFFENSE DATE                            
                    PAPRDATE           SCREEN DATE                             
                    SENDATE            SENTENCE DATE                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                               xv                                             
                                                                               
                                                                               
                            Victim File                                        
                            -----------                                        
                                                                               
                    COUNTY             COUNTY                                  
                    AAI                ABT ID #                                
                    CASENO             CASE NUMBER                             
                    VICID              VICTIM IDENTIFIER                       
                    VICNAME            VICTIM NAME                             
                    VRACE              VICTIM RACE                             
                    VETH               VICTIM ETHNICITY                        
                    VSEX               VICTIM SEX                              
                    VOCCUP             VICTIM OCCUPATION                       
                    VRES               VICTIM RESIDENCE                        
                    VPREC              PRIOR RECORD                            
                    VPANYNUM           # PRIORS                                
                    VPVIOLNU           # PRIORS - VIOLENT                      
                    VPDRUGNU           # PRIORS - DRUGS                        
                    VPCONVNU           # PRIORS - CNVCTTIONS                   
                    VPPROBNU           # PRIORS - PROBATIONS                   
                    VPINCARN           # PRIORS - INCRCRTNS                    
                    VPRTIME            PRIOR TIME SERVED                       
                    METHOD             CAUSE OF DEATH                          
                    VWEAP              VICTIM WEAPON FLAG                      
                    VWEAPTY            VICTIM WEAPON TYPE                      
                    VINVOLV            VICTIM PROVOCATION                      
                    OFFLOC             OFFENSE LOCATION                        
                    INOUT              INDOOR/OUTDOOR FLAG                     
                    VSCENE             WHY VICTIM ON SCENE                     
                    VPURDRUG           PURCHASE QUANTITY                       
                    VSELDRGS           SELL QUANTITY                           
                    VALCOH             ALCOHOL PRESENCE                        
                    VINDRUG            DRUGS IN VICTIM                         
                    VINTYPE            DRUG TYPE                               
                    VONDRUG            DRUGS ON VICTIM                         
                    VONTYPE            DRUG TYPE                               
                    VMI                MENTAL ILLNESS                          
                    VDAB               DRUG ABUSE                              
                    VDEAL              DEALER                                  
                    VGANG              GANG MEMBER                             
                    CID                CID                                     
                    VDOB               VICTIM DATE OF BIRTH                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                               xvi                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                            Offense File                                       
                            ------------                                       
                                                                               
                    COUNTY             COUNTY                                  
                    AAI                ABT ID #                                
                    PRIMDEFN           PRIMARY DEFN FLAG                       
                    DEFID              DEFENDANT IDENTIFIER                    
                    VICID              VICTIM IDENTIFIER                       
                    PRIREL             PRIOR RELATIONSHIP                      
                    LENREL             LENGTH RELATIONSHIP                     
                    VICSTAT1           PRIMARY VICTIM STATUS                   
                    VICSTAT2           VICTIM STATUS                           
                    VICSTAT3           VICTIM STATUS                           
                    CIRCUM1            PRIMARY CIRCUMSTANCE                    
                    CIRCUM2            CIRCUMSTANCE                            
                    CIRCUM3            CIRCUMSTANCE                            
                    DRUGTY             DRUG TYPE                               
                    DRUGEC             ECONOMIC DRUG MOTIVE                    
                    DRUGECTY           DRUG TYPE                               
                    DRUGPH             PHARM. DRUG MOTIVE                      
                    DRUGPHTY           DRUG TYPE                               
                    DRUGOTH            OTHER DRUG MOTIVE                       
                    DRUGOTHT           DRUG TYPE                               
                    JUSHOM             JUSTIFIABLE HOMICIDE                    
                    CID                CID                                     
                                                                               
1                                                                          1   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     INCIDENT FILE                                                             
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        COUNTY                County                    4      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      The county in which the incident occured.                                
                                                                               
     (alnm) Albuquerque, New Mexico                                            
     (autx) Austin, Texas                                                      
     (baca) Bakersfield, California                                            
     (brny) Brooklyn, New York                                                 
     (cama) Cambridge, Massachusetts                                           
     (chil) Chicago, Illinois                                                  
     (cooh) Columbus, Ohio                                                     
     (daoh) Dayton, Ohio                                                       
     (date) Dallas, Texas                                                      
     (deco) Denver, Colorado                                                   
     (demi) Detroit, Michigan                                                  
     (flfl) Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                           
     (fwtx) Fort Worth, Texas                                                  
     (laca) Los Angeles, California                                            
     (lico) Littleton, Colorado                                                
     (many) Manhattan, New York                                                
     (metn) Memphis, Tennessee                                                 
     (mifl) Miami, Florida                                                     
     (nhct) New Haven, Connecticut                                             
     (nola) New Orleans, Louisiana                                             
     (okok) Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                            
     (orca) Orange County, California                                          
     (orfl) Orlando, Florida                                                   
     (pgmd) Prince George'S County, Maryland                                   
     (phpa) Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                         
     (pipa) Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                            
     (quny) Queens, New York                                                   
     (rica) Riverside, California                                              
     (rony) Rochester, New York                                                
     (sdca) San Diego, California                                              
     (sewa) Seattle, Washington                                                
     (slmo) Saint Louis, Missouri                                              
     (tuaz) Tucson, Arizona                                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     1                  AAI                    Abt Id #                  3     
                                                                               
1     2                                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The incident number assigned by the coders. For a given                   
     incident, the AAI number is the same on each of the incident,             
     defendant, victim, and offense sections.                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable               Label                Length     
     Number             Name                                                   
                                                                               
     2                  CODER                  Coder                     1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The coder's initials.                                                     
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     3                  TRNAMEI                Offender Name             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the first offender associated with a case                     
     (Format:   first last). The first offender is not-necessarily the         
     primary defendant. See PRIMDEFN for primary defendant flag.               
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     4                  CASEN01                Case number               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME1.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label               Length      
                                                                               
     5                  TRNAME2                Offender Name            1      
1                                                                          3   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the second offender associated with a case                    
     (Format: first last).                                                     
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     6                  CASENO2                Case number               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual-case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME2.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     7                  TRNAME3                Offender Name             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the third offender associated with a case                     
     (Format: first last).                                                     
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     8                  CASENO3                Case number               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME3.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
1     4                                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     9                  TRNAME4                Offender Name             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the fourth offender associated with a case                    
     (Format: first last).                                                     
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                 Label                  Length     
                                                                               
     10                 CASENO4              Case number                 1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME4.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     11                 TRNAME5                Offender Name             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the fifth offender associated with a case                     
     (Format: first last).                                                     
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     12                 CASENO5                Case number               1     
                                                                               
1                                                                          5   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME5.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     13                 TRNAME6                Offender Name             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the sixth offender associated with a case                     
     (Format: first last).                                                     
                                                                               
     Note that the total number of TRNAME fields that are completed            
     is not necessarily the same as the number of defendants for which         
     data could be obtained (NUMCOD).                                          
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     14                 CASENO6                Case number               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The manual case file from which data was collected for the                
     offender in TRNAME6.                                                      
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     15                 DEATH                  Murder Charge             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the incident should be included in              
     the database (i.e., whether the charge at arrest was murder or            
     non-negligent manslaughter).                                              
                                                                               
     (1) Yes                                                                   
     (2) No                                                                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1     6                                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     16                 NUMVICTS               Number of Victims         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A free form field indicating the number of victims for whom a             
     victim section was completed.                                             
                                                                               
     For our purposes, victims only include people who died. Victims who       
     were merely wounded were not factored into the analysis.                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     17                 VICINCID               Victims per incident      1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether all the victims indicated in NUMVICTS           
     are included in the same incident.                                        
                                                                               
     (1) Yes                                                                   
     (2) No                                                                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     18                 NUMCOD                 Number defendants         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A free form field indicating the number of defendants                     
     associated with the incident for whom data could be coded.                
                                                                               
     (NUMCOD can be less than or equal to the number of "TRNAME"               
     fields completed for any given incident.)                                 
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     19                 DEFCASE                Defendants in file        1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether all the defendants indicated in                 
     NUMCOD are included in the same incident. (Note: this variable            
     is redundant, since NUMCOD is the actual number of defendants             
     coded for the incident, whereas the TRNAME total is the number of         
     offenders/defendants associated with the incident.)                       
                                                                               
     (1) Yes                                                                   
1                                                                          7   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (2) No                                                                    
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Varaible           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        CID                   County id #               2      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     This is a numeric code identifying the county in which the incident       
     occured.                                                                  
                                                                               
     (1)  Chicago, Illinois                                                    
     (2)  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                           
     (3)  Dallas, Texas                                                        
     (4)  Miami, Florida                                                       
     (5)  Manhattan, New York                                                  
     (6)  San Diego, California                                                
     (7)  Seattle, Washington                                                  
     (8)  Detroit, Michigan                                                    
     (9)  Los Angeles, California                                              
     (10)  New Orleans, Louisiana                                              
     (11)  Littleton, Colorado                                                 
     (12)  New Haven, Connecticut                                              
     (13)  Prince George'S County, Maryland                                    
     (14)  Orlando, Florida                                                    
     (15)  Orange County, California                                           
     (16)  Queens, New York                                                    
     (17)  Riverside, California                                               
     (18)  Albuquerque, New Mexico                                             
     (19)  Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                             
     (20)  Saint Louis, Missouri                                               
     (21)  Cambridge, Massachusetts                                            
     (22)  Columbus, Ohio                                                      
     (23)  Rochester, New York                                                 
     (24)  Memphis, Tennessee                                                  
     (25)  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                             
     (26)  Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                            
     (27)  Denver, Colorado                                                    
     (28)  Fort Worth, Texas                                                   
     (29)  Tucson, Arizona                                                     
     (30)  Austin, Texas                                                       
     (31)  Brooklyn, New York                                                  
     (32)  Bakersfield, California                                             
     (33)  Dayton, Ohio                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1     8                                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                                                          9   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     DEFENDANT DATA                                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        COUNTY                County                    4      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      The county in which the incident occured.                                
                                                                               
     (alnm) Albuquerque, New Mexico                                            
     (autx) Austin, Texas                                                      
     (baca) Bakersfield, California                                            
     (brny) Brooklyn, New York                                                 
     (cama) Cambridge, Massachusetts                                           
     (chil) Chicago, Illinois                                                  
     (cooh) Columbus, Ohio                                                     
     (daoh) Dayton, Ohio                                                       
     (date) Dallas, Texas                                                      
     (deco) Denver, Colorado                                                   
     (demi) Detroit, Michigan                                                  
     (flfl) Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                           
     (fwtx) Fort Worth, Texas                                                  
     (laca) Los Angeles, California                                            
     (lico) Littleton, Colorado                                                
     (many) Manhattan, New York                                                
     (metn) Memphis, Tennessee                                                 
     (mifl) Miami, Florida                                                     
     (nhct) New Haven, Connecticut                                             
     (nola) New Orleans, Louisiana                                             
     (okok) Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                            
     (orca) Orange County, California                                          
     (orfl) Orlando, Florida                                                   
     (pgmd) Prince George'S County, Maryland                                   
     (phpa) Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                         
     (pipa) Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                            
     (quny) Queens, New York                                                   
     (rica) Riverside, California                                              
     (rony) Rochester, New York                                                
     (sdca) San Diego, California                                              
     (sewa) Seattle, Washington                                                
     (slmo) Saint Louis, Missouri                                              
     (tuaz) Tucson, Arizona                                                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     20                 AAI                    Abt Id #                  3     
                                                                               
1     10                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The incident number assigned by the coders. For a given                   
     incident, the AAI number is the same on each of the incident,             
     defendant, victim, and offense sections.                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     21                 PRIMDEFN               Primary Defndnt           1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A primary defendant flag that indicates, if more than one                 
     defendant is associated with a case, which one should be included         
     in the victim-based analytic file.                                        
                                                                               
     (01) Clearly primary (generally, without this defendant the               
          homicide would not have occurred)                                    
                                                                               
     (02) Arbitrary primary (all defendants involved in/responsible for        
          homicide to the same extent, but one of them is designated as        
          primary for inclusion in the victim-based file)                      
                                                                               
     (03) Non-primary (if one defendant was coded as 02, then at               
          least one of the others is 03)                                       
                                                                               
     (04) Clearly non-primary (if one of the defendants is 01,                 
          then the other(s) are 04:  occasionally when one of the              
          defendants is 02, and at least one other is 03, another might be     
          an 04)                                                               
                                                                               
     (05) Only one defendant associated with the incident (thus,               
          no ranking necessary)                                                
                                                                               
     Note that only defendants for whom PRIMDEFN is 01, 02, or 05 can          
     be included in the victim-based analytic file.                            
                                                                               
     Occasionally the primary defendant's case was disposed outside of 1988.   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     22                 DEFIDN                 Defendant Id              1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant identifier. If only one defendant is associated             
     with the incident then DEFID is 1. Other defendants are                   
     assigned 2, 3, 4, etc.                                                    
                                                                               
     DEFID is independent of PRIMDEFN.                                         
                                                                               
1                                                                         11   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     23                 TRNAME                 Defendant Name            1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The name of the defendant  (first last)                                   
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     24                 PDID                   Police Id #               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The police identification number uniquely identifies the                  
     defendant within the criminal justice system.                             
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     25                 OFFDATE                Offense Date              6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The date the homicide occurred. (Format: mmddyy)                          
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     26                 OFFTIME                Offense time              6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The time the homicide occurred. (Format: xx:xxam or xx:xxpm)              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     27                 ARRDATE                Arrest Date               6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The date the defendant was arrested. (Format: mmddyy)                     
1     12                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     28                 DOB                    Defn date of birth        6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant's date of birth. (Format: mmddyy. If month                  
     and day are missing, then assume 0630yy)                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     29                 RACE                   Defn race                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant's race.                                                     
                                                                               
     (01) White                                                                
     (02) Black                                                                
     (03) American Indian/Alaskan Native                                       
     (04) Asian/Pacific Islander                                               
     (05) Other                                                                
     (06) Unknown                                                              
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     30                 ETH                    Defn ethnicity            2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant's ethnicity.                                                
                                                                               
     (01) Hispanic origin                                                      
     (02) Not of Hispanic origin                                               
     (03) Unknown                                                              
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     31                 SEX                    Defn sex                  2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant's sex.                                                      
1                                                                         13   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (01) Male                                                                 
     (02) Female                                                               
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     32                 DOCCUP                 Defn Occupation          20     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A free form field indicating the defendant's occupation. If               
     unknown, then field is blank. If it is known that the defendant           
     is employed, but the specific job is unknown, then "employed" is          
     entered. (Note: in some jurisdictions occupation is unknown,              
     but place of employment can be entered.)                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     33                 OFFRES                 Defn residence            2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant's current residence.                                        
                                                                               
     (01) From city                                                            
     (02) From nearby city or suburb                                           
     (03) From other city in state                                             
     (04) From outside of state                                                
     (05) No address                                                           
     (06) Migrant worker                                                       
     (07) Illegal alien                                                        
     (08) Unknown address                                                      
     (09) From outside of country                                              
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (05) is intended for homeless people.                                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     34                 PAPRDATE               Screen Date               6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The date the case was reviewed by the prosecutor's office. (mmddyy)       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
1     14                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     35                 INDATE                 Indictment date           6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The date the decision was  made to move the case from the lower           
     court to the upper court, or the date on which the defendant              
     first appeared in the upper court. (Format: mmddyy)                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     36                 FACTDATE               Disposition Date          6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The final disposition date (rejection, dismissal, guilty plea,            
     trial acquittal or conviction, etc.) (Format: mmddyy)                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     37                 SENDATE                Sentence Date             6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The date the defendant was sentenced. (Format: mmddyy)                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     38                 INDICT                 Indictment Indicator      1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating if the defendant was indicted.                          
                                                                               
     (1)   Yes                                                                 
     (2)   No                                                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     39                 CHARG1                 Charge                    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating one of the charges associated with the case.            
1                                                                         15   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (00)  Capital murder (Texas only)                                         
     (01)  First degree murder                                                 
     (02)  Second degree murder                                                
     (03)  Third degree murder                                                 
     (04)  Voluntary manslaughter/Non-negligent - manslaughter 1st             
     (05)  Accessory to murder                                                 
     (06)  Accessory after the fact                                            
     (07)  Conspiracy to murder (includes solicitation to murder)              
     (08)  Attempted murder                                                    
     (09)  Use of firearm (includes felony f/a, possession of f/a)             
     (10)  Aggravated battery (includes assault with a weapon)                 
     (11)  Sexual assault                                                      
     (12)  Robbery                                                             
     (13)  Burglary                                                            
     (14)  Arson (includes arson related charges)                              
     (15)  Kidnapping                                                          
     (16)  Prostitution                                                        
     (17)  Other felony (includes escape, evidence tampering)                  
     (18)  Misdemeanor                                                         
     (19)  Career Criminal Enhancement                                         
     (20)  Felony Drug                                                         
     (21)  Use of a dangerous weapon (other than a firearm)                    
     (22)  Involuntary manslaughter/negligent - manslaughter 2nd               
     (23)  Reckless driving (hit and run)                                      
     (24)  Driving under the influence                                         
     (25)  Vehicular manslaughter                                              
     (26)  Child abuse                                                         
     (27)  Child abuse with death (Albuquerque only)                           
     (28)  Larceny/Grand theft (includes auto theft)                           
     (29)  Old age enhancement                                                 
     (30)  Careless use of a firearm                                           
     (31)  Reckless Endangerment of another person                             
     (32)  Attempted manslaughter                                              
     (33)  Misd. drug                                                          
     (34)  Unknown                                                             
     (35)  Armed Violence (Chicago)                                            
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     40                 ACTVEAT1               Charge activity           3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A character code indicating if CHARG1 was active at arrest                
     and/or indictment and/or conviction.                                      
                                                                               
     (a)  active at arrest                                                     
     (i)  active at indictment                                                 
     (c)  active at conviction                                                 
     (ai)  active at arrest and indictment                                     
     (ac)  active at arrest and conviction                                     
1     16                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (ic)  active at indictment and conviction                                 
     (aic)  active at arrest, indictment and conviction                        
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     41                 CHARG2                 Charge                    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See CHARG1                                                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     42                 ACTVEAT2               Charge activity           3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See ACTVEAT1                                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     43                 CHARG3                 Charge                    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See CHARG1                                                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     44                 ACTVEAT3               Charge activity           3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See ACTVEAT1                                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     45                 CHARG4                 Charge                    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See CHARG1                                                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
1                                                                         17   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     46                 ACTVEAT4               Charge activity           3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See ACTVEAT1                                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     47                 CHARG5                 Charge                    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     See CHARG1                                                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     48                 ACTVEAT5               Charge activity           3     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     49                 FINDISPO               Disposition               2     
                                                                               
     The disposition outcome.                                                  
                                                                               
     (01)  Rejected                                                            
     (02)  Dismissed/Nolle Prosequi                                            
     (03)  Trial - Guilty (Judge)                                              
     (04)  Trial - Guilty (Jury)                                               
     (05)  Trial - Not Guilty (Judge)                                          
     (06)  Trial - Not Guilty (Jury)                                           
     (07)  Trial - Not Guilty/Insanity (Judge)                                 
     (08)  Trial - Not Guilty/Insanity (Jury)                                  
     (09)  Hung jury/mistrial                                                  
     (10)  Guilty Plea                                                         
     (11)  Guilty Plea to lesser                                               
     (12)  Conviction overturned on appeal                                     
     (13)  Open                                                                
     (14)  Other (includes unknown)                                            
     (15)  convicted but not clear if guilty plea or trial conviction          
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1     18                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     50                 REJREAS                Rejection reason          2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The reason for rejection or dismissal. If FINDISPO = 01 or 02             
     then REJREAS cannot be blank.                                             
                                                                               
     (01)  Lack of evidence                                                    
     (02)  Witness problem                                                     
     (03)  Violations of due process                                           
     (04)  Interest of justice                                                 
     (05)  Covered by other case                                               
     (06)  Diversion                                                           
     (07)  Extradition/deported                                                
     (08)  Refer for other prosecution                                         
     (09)  Self defense                                                        
     (10)  Justifiable homicide                                                
     (11)  Accident                                                            
     (12)  Defendant died                                                      
     (13)  Defendant committed suicide                                         
     (14)  Other                                                               
     (15)  Unknown                                                             
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     51                 SENTIND                Sentence indicator        1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating if the defendant has been sentenced.                    
                                                                               
     (1)  Yes                                                                  
     (2)  No                                                                   
                                                                               
     (Note that if a case file suggests that a date has been scheduled         
     for sentencing but it had not yet occurred at the time of coding,         
     the defendant was assumed to have been sentenced and was thus             
     entered into the database as SENTIND = 1.)                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     52                 PRITIME                Incarceration term        5     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The amount of time in days that the defendant was sentenced.              
                                                                               
     (36136)  Life                                                             
     (36137)  Death                                                            
1                                                                         19   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Note that for indeterminate sentences, the lower end of the sentence was  
     entered in PRITIME.                                                       
                                                                               
     If a sentence was imposed with a period suspended, the suspended portion  
     was subtracted from the sentenced portion, for a net amount.              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     53                 PRISON                 Incarc. location          1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating where the defendant was sentenced to serve              
     his prison term.                                                          
                                                                               
     (1)  Prison                                                               
     (2)  Jail                                                                 
     (3)  State hospital                                                       
     (4)  Youth authority (California only)                                    
     (5)  Drug Treatment                                                       
                                                                               
     In some instances a defendant may have a FINDISPO of (07) or (08)         
     (not guilty-insanity), but appear with a PRISON value of 3. This          
     was designed to capture those instances where the defendant was           
     sent to the hospital even though criminal guilt was not adjudicated.      
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     54                 PROTIME                Probation time            4     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The amount of time in days the defendant was sentenced to                 
     probation.                                                                
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     55                 SUSTIME                Suspended time            4     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The amount of time in days the defendant's sentence was                   
     suspended.                                                                
                                                                               
     (Note that in Albuquerque and PG County sentences were usually handed     
     down in the form of xxtime in prison, with yytime suspended for a total   
1     20                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     of (xx-yy)time in prison. Subsequently, xx-yy was entered into PRITIME,   
     and yy was entered into SUSTIME. For total sentence imposed we would      
     have to add SUSTIME and PRITIME together, but for total time to serve     
     we would keep PRITIME alone.)                                             
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     56                 PREC                   Prior record flag         2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Defendant Prior Record.                                                   
                                                                               
     (01) Yes, rap sheet in file                                               
     (02) Yes, but no rap sheet available                                      
     (03) No                                                                   
     (04) Juv. record only                                                     
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     Note that in Bakersfield, California a rap sheet was generally            
     unavailable, but prior record information was included in the             
     pre-sentence investigation report. Thus 02 was entered for PREC,          
     but values can and do appear for PRANYNUM, PRVIOLNUM, PRDRUGNUM,          
     PRCONVNUM, PRPROBNUM, PRINCARNUM, and PRTIME.                             
                                                                               
     In most other sites, if (02) is entered for PREC any values in the        
     prior record grid were ignored because they were very unreliable.         
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     57                 PRANYNUM               # priors                  3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior arrests on the defendant's criminal record.           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     58                 PRVIOLNU               # priors - violent        2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior violent arrests on the defendant's criminal           
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1                                                                         21   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     59                 PRDRUGNU               # priors - drugs          2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior drug arrests on the defendant's criminal              
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     60                 PRCONVNU               # priors - convictions    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior convictions on the defendant's criminal               
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     61                 PRPROBNU               # priors - probations     2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior sentences to probation on the defendant's             
     criminal record.                                                          
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable            Variable                                              
     Number              Name                  Label                Length     
                                                                               
     62                  PRINCARN              # priors - incarcerations 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior sentences to incarceration on the                     
     defendant's criminal record.                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     63                 PRTIME                 Prior prison time         5     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The amount of time in days to which the defendant was sentenced           
     for a prior conviction. If more than one amount of time was               
     noted by the coders, the longest period of time was converted to          
     days and entered.                                                         
                                                                               
1     22                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     65                 DSCENE                 Defn on scene             2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Why the defendant was on the scene.                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Legitimate Activity                                                       
                                                                               
     (01)   At home                                                            
     (02)   In transit                                                         
     (03)   At work                                                            
     (04)   Shopping/doing errands (includes "buying beer")                    
     (05)   Recreation (public place)                                          
     (06)   Recreation (private dwelling)                                      
     (07)   Mediator/intervenor                                                
     (08)   Loitering                                                          
     (09)   Collecting debt                                                    
     (10)   Settling dispute/seeking confrontation                             
     (11)   Driving around/joyriding                                           
     (12)   Casual sex                                                         
     (13)   Other legitimate activity                                          
     (14)   Babysitting/taking care of kids                                    
     (15)   Moving belongings                                                  
     (16)   Picking up/dropping off kids                                       
     (17)   Repay Debt                                                         
     (18)   Borrow money                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Illegitimate    Activity                                                  
                                                                               
     (20)   Purchasing drugs                                                   
     (21)   Selling drugs                                                      
     (22)   Doing drugs                                                        
     (23)   Collecting drug debt                                               
     (24)   Organized crime activity                                           
     (25)   Gang activity                                                      
     (26)   Committing property crime                                          
     (27)   Committing crime against person                                    
     (28)   Prostitution (seller)                                              
     (29)   Prostitution (buyer)                                               
     (30)   Other illegitimate activity                                        
     (31)   Other drug business activity (includes for example:                
            settling bad deal, etc.)                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Other                                                                     
                                                                               
     (40)   SPECIFY (includes "not on scene")                                  
     (41)   To kill victim                                                     
1                                                                         23   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (42)   Being abducted/lured                                               
     (99)   Unknown/no information                                             
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     66                 PURDRUGS               Purchase quantity         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the quantity of drugs the defendant was                 
     selling at the time of the homicide. PURDRUGS must be blank               
     unless DSCENE is 20 (purchasing drugs).                                   
                                                                               
     (1)  Wholesale                                                            
     (2)  Retail                                                               
     (3)  Can't tell                                                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     67                 SELDRUGS               Sale quantity             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the quantity of drugs the defendant was                 
     purchasing at the time of the homicide. SELDRUGS must be blank            
     unless DSCENE is 21 (selling drugs).                                      
                                                                               
     (1)  Wholesale                                                            
     (2)  Retail                                                               
     (3)  Can't tell                                                           
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     68                 OALCOH                 Alcohol presence          2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether alcohol was present in defendant at             
     time of offense.                                                          
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) Suspected                                                            
     (03) No                                                                   
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1     24                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     69                 OINDRUG                Drugs in defn             2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether drugs were present in defendant at              
     time of offense.                                                          
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) Suspected                                                            
     (03) No                                                                   
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     70                 OINTYPE                Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug present in defendant at time           
     of offense. If OINDRUG is 03 or 99 then OINTYPE must be blank.            
                                                                               
     (01)   Heroin                                                             
     (02)   PCP                                                                
     (03)   Crack                                                              
     (04)   Cocaine                                                            
     (05)   Marijuana                                                          
     (06)   Barbiturate                                                        
     (07)   Methadone                                                          
     (08)   Amphetamine                                                        
     (09)   Hallucinogen                                                       
     (10)   Tranquilizer                                                       
     (11)   Paraphernalia (rolling papers, needles, vials,                     
            scales, etc.)                                                      
     (12)   Unknown                                                            
     (13)   Crack and cocaine                                                  
     (14)   Marijuana and cocaine                                              
     (15)   Amphetamines and cocaine                                           
     (16)   Heroin and tranquilizers                                           
     (17)   Heroin and barbiturates                                            
     (18)   Heroin and cocaine                                                 
     (19)   PCP and cocaine                                                    
     (20)   Crack and amphetamine                                              
     (21)   Marijuana and tranquilizers                                        
     (22)   Marijuana and heroin                                               
     (23)   Marijuana and crack                                                
     (24)   Cocaine and tranquilizer                                           
     (25)   PCP and marijuana                                                  
     (26)   Hallucinogen and barbiturate                                       
     (27)   PCP and amphetamine                                                
     (28)   Amphetamine and tranquilizer                                       
     (29)   Cocaine and PCP and marijuana                                      
1                                                                         25   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (30)   PCP and crack                                                      
     (32)   Amphetamine and marijuana                                          
     (33)   Hallucinogen and amphetamine and marijuana                         
     (99)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     71                 OONDRUG                Drugs on defn.            2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether drugs or paraphernalia were on                  
     defendant at time of arrest.                                              
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     72                 OONTYPE                Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug or paraphernalia on                    
     defendant at time of arrest. If OONDRUG is 02 or 99 then OONTYPE          
     must be blank.                                                            
                                                                               
     Refer to drug list in OINTYPE.                                            
                                                                               
     Note that if paraphernalia found in conjunction with a drug, only         
     the drug was coded.                                                       
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     73                 OFFMI                  Mental illness            2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the defendant has a history of mental illness.                       
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1     26                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     74                 OFFDAB                 Drug abuse                1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the defendant has a history of drug/alcohol abuse.                   
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     75                 ODEAL                  Dealer                    1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the defendant is a drug dealer.                                      
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     76                 OGANG                  Gang member               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the defendant is a gang member.                                      
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
    .....................................................................      
                                                                               
     Varaible           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        CID                   County id #               2      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     This is a numeric code identifying the county in which the incident       
     occured.                                                                  
                                                                               
     (1)  Chicago, Illinois                                                    
     (2)  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                           
     (3)  Dallas, Texas                                                        
     (4)  Miami, Florida                                                       
1                                                                         27   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (5)  Manhattan, New York                                                  
     (6)  San Diego, California                                                
     (7)  Seattle, Washington                                                  
     (8)  Detroit, Michigan                                                    
     (9)  Los Angeles, California                                              
     (10)  New Orleans, Louisiana                                              
     (11)  Littleton, Colorado                                                 
     (12)  New Haven, Connecticut                                              
     (13)  Prince George'S County, Maryland                                    
     (14)  Orlando, Florida                                                    
     (15)  Orange County, California                                           
     (16)  Queens, New York                                                    
     (17)  Riverside, California                                               
     (18)  Albuquerque, New Mexico                                             
     (19)  Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                             
     (20)  Saint Louis, Missouri                                               
     (21)  Cambridge, Massachusetts                                            
     (22)  Columbus, Ohio                                                      
     (23)  Rochester, New York                                                 
     (24)  Memphis, Tennessee                                                  
     (25)  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                             
     (26)  Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                            
     (27)  Denver, Colorado                                                    
     (28)  Fort Worth, Texas                                                   
     (29)  Tucson, Arizona                                                     
     (30)  Austin, Texas                                                       
     (31)  Brooklyn, New York                                                  
     (32)  Bakersfield, California                                             
     (33)  Dayton, Ohio                                                        
                                                                               
1     28                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                                                         29   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     VICTIM FILE                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        COUNTY                County                    4      
                                                                               
                                                                               
      The county in which the incident occured.                                
                                                                               
     (alnm) Albuquerque, New Mexico                                            
     (autx) Austin, Texas                                                      
     (baca) Bakersfield, California                                            
     (brny) Brooklyn, New York                                                 
     (cama) Cambridge, Massachusetts                                           
     (chil) Chicago, Illinois                                                  
     (cooh) Columbus, Ohio                                                     
     (daoh) Dayton, Ohio                                                       
     (date) Dallas, Texas                                                      
     (deco) Denver, Colorado                                                   
     (demi) Detroit, Michigan                                                  
     (flfl) Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                           
     (fwtx) Fort Worth, Texas                                                  
     (laca) Los Angeles, California                                            
     (lico) Littleton, Colorado                                                
     (many) Manhattan, New York                                                
     (metn) Memphis, Tennessee                                                 
     (mifl) Miami, Florida                                                     
     (nhct) New Haven, Connecticut                                             
     (nola) New Orleans, Louisiana                                             
     (okok) Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                            
     (orca) Orange County, California                                          
     (orfl) Orlando, Florida                                                   
     (pgmd) Prince George'S County, Maryland                                   
     (phpa) Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                         
     (pipa) Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                            
     (quny) Queens, New York                                                   
     (rica) Riverside, California                                              
     (rony) Rochester, New York                                                
     (sdca) San Diego, California                                              
     (sewa) Seattle, Washington                                                
     (slmo) Saint Louis, Missouri                                              
     (tuaz) Tucson, Arizona                                                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     77                 AAI                    Abt Id #                  3     
                                                                               
1     30                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The incident number assigned by the coders. For a given                   
     incident, the AAI number is the same on each of the incident,             
     defendant, victim, and offense sections.                                  
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     78                   CASENO                 Case Number             1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A free form field indicating the case number associated with              
     the manual file from which the victim information was taken.              
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     79                 VICID                  Victim identifier         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     This number uniquely identifies a victim within a given                   
     incident. It is supplied by the coder. First victim is 1,                 
     second 2, etc.                                                            
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     80                 VICNAME                Victim Name               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The victim's name (first last).                                           
                                                                               
     This field has been blanked for confidentiality.                          
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     81                 VDOB                   Date of birth             6     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Victim's date of birth (Format: mmddyy. Note that if month                
     and day were missing, then VDOB becomes 0630yy).                          
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1                                                                         31   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     82                 VRACE                  Victim race               2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating victim's race.                                          
                                                                               
     (01)   White                                                              
     (02)   Black                                                              
     (03)   American Indian/Alaskan Native                                     
     (04)   Asian/Pacific Islander                                             
     (05)   Other                                                              
     (06)   Unknown                                                            
     (99)   No information                                                     
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     83                 VETH                   Ethnicity                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating victim's ethnicity.                                     
                                                                               
     (01) Hispanic Origin                                                      
     (02) Not of Hispanic origin                                               
     (03) Unknown                                                              
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     84                 VSEX                   Victim sex                2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating victim's sex.                                           
                                                                               
     (01) Male                                                                 
     (02) Female                                                               
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     85                 VOCCUP                 Occupation               20     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A free form field indicating the victim's occupation. If                  
     unknown, then field is blank. If it is known that the victim is           
1     32                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     employed, but the specific job is unknown, then "employed" is             
     entered. (Note: in some jurisdictions occupation is unknown,              
     but place of employment can be entered.)                                  
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     86                 VRES                   Residence                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the victim's current residence.                         
                                                                               
     (01)   From city                                                          
     (02)   From nearby city or suburb                                         
     (03)   From other city in state                                           
     (04)   From outside of state                                              
     (05)   No address (a drifter--clearly stated)                             
     (06)   Migrant worker                                                     
     (07)   Illegal alien                                                      
     (08)   Unknown address                                                    
     (09)   From outside of country                                            
     (99)   No information                                                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     87                 VPREC                  Prior record              2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Victim Prior Record                                                       
                                                                               
     (01) Yes, rap sheet in file                                               
     (02) Yes, but no rap sheet available                                      
     (03) No                                                                   
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     Any specifics (VPANYNUM, VPVIDLNUM, ETC.) for VPREC were ignored if (02)  
     was coded here, unless the prior record information seemed complete,      
     despite the absence of a rap sheet.                                       
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label            Length         
                                                                               
     88                 VPANYNUM               # priors              2         
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior arrests on the victim's criminal record.              
1                                                                         33   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     89                 VPVIOLNU               # priors - violent        2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior violent arrests on the victim's criminal              
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     90                 VPDRUGNU               # priors - drugs          2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior drug arrests on the victim's criminal                 
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     91                 VPCONVNU               # priors - convictions    2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior convictions on the victim's criminal                  
     record.                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     92                 VPPROBNU               # priors - probation      1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior sentences to probation on the victim's                
     criminal record.                                                          
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     93                 VPINCARN               # priors-incarcerations   2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The number of prior sentences to incarceration on the victim's            
1     34                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     criminal record.                                                          
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     94                 VPRTIME                Prior time served         5     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The amount of time in days to which the victim was sentenced              
     for a prior conviction. If more than one amount of time was               
     noted by the coders, the longest period of time was converted to          
     days and entered.                                                         
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     96                 METHOD                 Cause of death            2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the victim's cause of death.                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Firearm                                                                   
                                                                               
     (01)  Handgun                                                             
     (02)  Shotgun                                                             
     (03)  Rifle                                                               
     (04)  Machine gun/repeating                                               
     (05)  Other gun                                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Other                                                                     
                                                                               
     (06)  Knife                                                               
     (07)  Sharp instrument                                                    
     (08)  Blunt instrument                                                    
     (09)  Vehicle                                                             
     (10)  Personal weapon (hands, fists, feet, etc.)                          
     (11)  Drowning                                                            
     (12)  Asphyxiation                                                        
     (13)  Throw from window/other height                                      
     (14)  Strangulation                                                       
     (15)  Poison                                                              
     (16)  Explosives                                                          
     (17)  Fire (includes smoke inhalation)                                    
     (18)  Other                                                               
     (19)  Heart attack/seizure                                                
     (20)  Fall/jump from window/height                                        
     (21)  Neglect (for child abuse cases)                                     
1                                                                         35   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (22)  Scalding water                                                      
     (23)  Overdose                                                            
     (99)  No information                                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Occasionally coder noted more than one method. Usually the lower          
     number codes were given preference in such situations, unless the         
     written description clearly indicated otherwise.                          
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     97                 VWEAP                  Victim wpn flag           2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating if the victim was in possession of a weapon.            
                                                                               
     (01)  Yes                                                                 
     (02)  Suspected                                                           
     (03)  No                                                                  
     (99)  No information                                                      
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     98                 VWEAPTY                Vctm wpn type             2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the victim's weapon type. If VWEAP is 03 or             
     99 then VWEAPTY must be blank.                                            
                                                                               
     (01)   Handgun                                                            
     (02)   Shotgun                                                            
     (03)   Rifle                                                              
     (04)   Machine gun                                                        
     (05)   Other gun                                                          
     (06)   Knife                                                              
     (07)   Sharp instrument                                                   
     (08)   Blunt instrument                                                   
     (09)   Other                                                              
     (10)   Unknown                                                            
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     99                 VINVOLV                Victim provocation        2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
1     36                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code that indicates if the victim was the first to physically           
     attack defendant or brandish/threaten with weapon.                        
                                                                               
     (01)   Physical attack                                                    
     (02)   Brandish weapon                                                    
     (03)   One of above, but cannot distinguish                               
     (04)   Suspected                                                          
     (05)   No provocation                                                     
     (99)   No/insufficient information                                        
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label              Length       
                                                                               
     100                OFFLOC                 Location                2       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating where the offense took place.                           
                                                                               
     (01)   Victim residence                                                   
     (02)   Offender residence                                                 
     (03)   Victim-offender residence                                          
     (04)   Residence of mutual friend                                         
     (05)   Other private residence                                            
     (06)   Bar/nightclub                                                      
     (07)   Restaurant                                                         
     (08)   Business establishment (store, bank, gas                           
            station, etc.)                                                     
     (09)   Workplace                                                          
     (10)   Motel/hotel                                                        
     (11)   Public building                                                    
     (12)   Vacant building                                                    
     (13)   Known drug locale (shooting gallery, crack house open-             
            air market)                                                        
     (14)   Common area of apartment building                                  
     (15)   Street                                                             
     (16)   Parking lot/parking structure                                      
     (17)   Public park/campground                                             
     (18)   Public transportation                                              
     (19)   Vacant lot                                                         
     (20)   Vehicle                                                            
     (21)   Other                                                              
     (22)   Highway                                                            
     (23)   Desert                                                             
     (24)   Alley                                                              
     (25)   Aqueduct                                                           
     (26)   Bay/river                                                          
     (27)   Woods                                                              
     (28)   Remote field                                                       
     (29)   Prison                                                             
     (30)   Hospital                                                           
     (31)   Beach                                                              
     (99)   Unknown                                                            
1                                                                         37   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     101                INOUT                  In/outdoor flag           2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating if the homicide occurred indoors or outdoors.           
                                                                               
     (01) Indoor                                                               
     (02) Outdoor                                                              
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     102                VSCENE                 Why victim on scene       2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating why the victim was on the scene.                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Legitimate Activity                                                       
                                                                               
     (01)   At home                                                            
     (02)   In transit                                                         
     (03)   At work                                                            
     (04)   Shopping/doing errands                                             
     (05)   Recreation (public place)                                          
     (06)   Recreation (private dwelling)                                      
     (07)   Mediator/intervenor                                                
     (08)   Loitering                                                          
     (09)   Collecting debt                                                    
     (10)   Settling dispute/seeking confrontation                             
     (11)   Driving around/joyriding                                           
     (12)   Casual sex                                                         
     (13)   Other legitimate activity                                          
     (14)   Babysitting/taking care of kids                                    
     (15)   Moving belongings                                                  
     (16)   Picking up/dropping off kids                                       
     (17)   Repay Debt                                                         
     (18)   Borrow money                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Illegitimate   Activity                                                   
                                                                               
     (20)  Purchasing drugs                                                    
     (21)  Selling drugs                                                       
     (22)  Doing drugs                                                         
1     38                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (23)  Collecting drug debt                                                
     (24)  Organized crime activity                                            
     (25)  Gang activity                                                       
     (26)  Committing property crime                                           
     (27)  Committing crime against person                                     
     (28)  Prostitution (seller)                                               
     (29)  Prostitution (buyer)                                                
     (30)  Other illegitimate activity                                         
     (31)  Other drug business activity                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Other                                                                     
                                                                               
     (40) SPECIFY                                                              
     (41) To kill defendant                                                    
     (42) Being abducted/lured                                                 
     (99) Unknown/no information                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     103                VPURDRUG               Purchase drugs            1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the quantity of drugs the victim was selling            
     at the time of the homicide. VPURDRUGS must be blank unless               
     VSCENE is 20 (purchasing drugs).                                          
                                                                               
     (1)  Wholesale                                                            
     (2)  Retail                                                               
     (3)  Can't tell                                                           
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     104                VSELDRUG               Sell drugs                1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the quantity of drugs the victim was                    
     purchasing at the time of the homicide. VSELDRUGS must be blank           
     unless VSCENE is 21 (selling drugs).                                      
                                                                               
     (1)  Wholesale                                                            
     (2)  Retail                                                               
     (3)  Can't tell                                                           
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
1                                                                         39   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     105                VALCOH                 Alcohol presence          2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether alcohol was present in victim at time           
     of offense.                                                               
                                                                               
     (01)  Yes                                                                 
     (02)  Suspected                                                           
     (03)  No                                                                  
     (99)  No information                                                      
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     106                VINDRUG                Drugs in victim           2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether drugs were present in victim at time            
     of offense.                                                               
                                                                               
     (01)  Yes                                                                 
     (02)  Suspected                                                           
     (03)  No                                                                  
     (99)  No information                                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     107                VINTYPE                Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug present in victim at time of           
     offense. If VINDRUG is 03 or 99 then VINTYPE must be blank.               
                                                                               
     (01)   Heroin                                                             
     (02)   PCP                                                                
     (03)   Crack                                                              
     (04)   Cocaine                                                            
     (05)   Marijuana                                                          
     (06)   Barbiturate                                                        
     (07)   Methadone                                                          
     (08)   Amphetamine                                                        
     (09)   Hallucinogen                                                       
     (10)   Tranquilizer                                                       
     (11)   Paraphernalia (rolling papers, needles, vials,                     
            scales, etc.)                                                      
     (12)   Unknown                                                            
     (13)   Crack and cocaine                                                  
1     40                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (14)   Marijuana and cocaine                                              
     (15)   Amphetamines and cocaine                                           
     (16)   Heroin and tranquilizers                                           
     (17)   Heroin and barbiturates                                            
     (18)   Heroin and cocaine                                                 
     (19)   PCP and cocaine                                                    
     (20)   Crack and amphetamine                                              
     (21)   Tranquilizers and marijuana                                        
     (22)   Heroin and marijuana                                               
     (23)   Marijuana and crack                                                
     (24)   Cocaine and tranquilizer                                           
     (99)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list.)                                    
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     108                VONDRUG                Drugs on victim           2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether drugs or paraphernalia were on victim           
     at time of arrest.                                                        
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
     (99) No information                                                       
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     109                VONTYPE                Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug or paraphernalia on victim             
     when the body was found. If VONDRUG is 02 or 99 then VONTYPE              
     must be blank.                                                            
                                                                               
     Refer to drug list in VINTYPE.                                            
                                                                               
     Note that if paraphernalia found in conjunction with a drug, only         
     the drug was coded.                                                       
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list.)                                    
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
1                                                                         41   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     110                VMI                    Mental illness            1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the victim had a history of mental illness.                          
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     111                VDAB                   Drug abuse                1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the victim had a history of drug/alcohol abuse.                      
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     112                VDEAL                  Dealer                    1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the victim was a drug dealer.                                        
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     113                VGANG                  Gang member               1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the case file contained information             
     that the victim was a gang member.                                        
                                                                               
     (01)   Yes                                                                
     (02)   No                                                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
1     42                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Varaible           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        CID                   County id #               2      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     This is a numeric code identifying the county in which the incident       
     occured.                                                                  
                                                                               
     (1)  Chicago, Illinois                                                    
     (2)  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                           
     (3)  Dallas, Texas                                                        
     (4)  Miami, Florida                                                       
     (5)  Manhattan, New York                                                  
     (6)  San Diego, California                                                
     (7)  Seattle, Washington                                                  
     (8)  Detroit, Michigan                                                    
     (9)  Los Angeles, California                                              
     (10)  New Orleans, Louisiana                                              
     (11)  Littleton, Colorado                                                 
     (12)  New Haven, Connecticut                                              
     (13)  Prince George'S County, Maryland                                    
     (14)  Orlando, Florida                                                    
     (15)  Orange County, California                                           
     (16)  Queens, New York                                                    
     (17)  Riverside, California                                               
     (18)  Albuquerque, New Mexico                                             
     (19)  Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                             
     (20)  Saint Louis, Missouri                                               
     (21)  Cambridge, Massachusetts                                            
     (22)  Columbus, Ohio                                                      
     (23)  Rochester, New York                                                 
     (24)  Memphis, Tennessee                                                  
     (25)  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                             
     (26)  Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                            
     (27)  Denver, Colorado                                                    
     (28)  Fort Worth, Texas                                                   
     (29)  Tucson, Arizona                                                     
     (30)  Austin, Texas                                                       
     (31)  Brooklyn, New York                                                  
     (32)  Bakersfield, California                                             
     (33)  Dayton, Ohio                                                        
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                                                         43   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     OFFENSE FILE                                                              
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        COUNTY                County                    4      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The county in which the incident occured.                                 
                                                                               
     (alnm) Albuquerque, New Mexico                                            
     (autx) Austin, Texas                                                      
     (baca) Bakersfield, California                                            
     (brny) Brooklyn, New York                                                 
     (cama) Cambridge, Massachusetts                                           
     (chil) Chicago, Illinois                                                  
     (cooh) Columbus, Ohio                                                     
     (daoh) Dayton, Ohio                                                       
     (date) Dallas, Texas                                                      
     (deco) Denver, Colorado                                                   
     (demi) Detroit, Michigan                                                  
     (flfl) Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                           
     (fwtx) Fort Worth, Texas                                                  
     (laca) Los Angeles, California                                            
     (lico) Littleton, Colorado                                                
     (many) Manhattan, New York                                                
     (metn) Memphis, Tennessee                                                 
     (mifl) Miami, Florida                                                     
     (nhct) New Haven, Connecticut                                             
     (nola) New Orleans, Louisiana                                             
     (okok) Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                            
     (orca) Orange County, California                                          
     (orfl) Orlando, Florida                                                   
     (pgmd) Prince George'S County, Maryland                                   
     (phpa) Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                         
     (pipa) Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                            
     (quny) Queens, New York                                                   
     (rica) Riverside, California                                              
     (rony) Rochester, New York                                                
     (sdca) San Diego, California                                              
     (sewa) Seattle, Washington                                                
     (slmo) Saint Louis, Missouri                                              
     (tuaz) Tucson, Arizona                                                    
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     114                AAI                    Abt Id #                  3     
                                                                               
1     44                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The incident number assigned by the coders. For a given                   
     incident, the AAI number is the same on each of the incident,             
     defendant, victim, and offense sections.                                  
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     115                PRIMDEFN               Primary defn flag         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A primary defendant flag that indicates, if more than one                 
     defendant is associated with a case, which one should be included         
     in the victim-based analytic file.                                        
                                                                               
     (01) Clearly primary (generally, without this defendant the               
          homicide would not have occurred)                                    
                                                                               
     (02) Arbitrary primary (all defendants involved/responsible               
          for homicide to the same extent but one of them is designated as     
          primary for inclusion in the victim-based file)                      
                                                                               
     (03) Non-primary (if one defendant was coded as 02, then at               
          least one of the others is 03)                                       
                                                                               
     (04) Clearly non-primary (if one of the defendants is 01,                 
          then the other(s) are 04:  occasionally when one of the              
          defendants is 02, and at least one other is 03, another might be     
          an 04)                                                               
                                                                               
     (05) Only one defendant associated with the incident (thus,               
          no ranking necessary)                                                
                                                                               
     Note that only defendants for whom PRIMDEFN is 01, 02, or 05 can          
     be included in the victim-based analytic file.                            
                                                                               
     (See variable #21 for details on how to choose primary defendants)        
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label               Length      
                                                                               
     116                DEFID                  Defndnt Id               2      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The defendant identifier. If only one defendant is associated             
     with the incident then DEFID is D1. Other defendants are                  
     assigned D2, D3, D4, etc.                                                 
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
1                                                                         45   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     117                VICID                  Victim Id                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     The victim identifier. If only one victim is associated with              
     the incident, then VICID is V1. Other victims are assigned V2,            
     V3, V4, etc.                                                              
                                                                               
     It is important to note that if more than one victim and                  
     defendant are associated with an incident, the DEFID and VICID            
     must be different for each pair associated with a case. For               
     example, if AAI 001 had 2 defendants and 2 victims, then the              
     incident file for AAI 001 would be completed four different times         
     with D1 - V1, D1 - V2, D2 - V1, and D2 - V2.                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     118                PRIREL                 Prior relationship        2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether prior to day of homicide, the victim            
     would have recognized defendant.                                          
                                                                               
     (01)  Yes                                                                 
     (02)  Likely                                                              
     (03)  No                                                                  
     (99)  No information                                                      
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     119                LENREL                 Length relationship       1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether the defendant-victim relationship was           
     short-term (e.g., few days, few weeks). If PRIREL is 03 or 99             
     then LENREL must be blank.                                                
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     120                VICSTAT1               Primary vctm status       3     
1     46                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the primary victim status with respect to               
     defendant at time of homicide.                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (A)    Family                                                             
                                                                               
     (01)   Spouse                                                             
     (02)   Common-law spouse                                                  
     (03)   Parent                                                             
     (04)   Child                                                              
     (05)   Common-law child                                                   
     (06)   Sibling                                                            
     (07)   Grandparent                                                        
     (08)   Grandchild                                                         
     (09)   Stepparent                                                         
     (10)   Stepbrother/sister                                                 
     (11)   Stepchild                                                          
     (12)   In-law                                                             
     (13)   Cousin                                                             
     (18)   Extended family                                                    
     (19)   Other family                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (B)    Other close relationship                                           
                                                                               
     (01)   Child of boyfriend/girlfriend                                      
     (02)   Babysittee (the baby was victim)                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (C)    Romantic                                                           
                                                                               
     (01)   Lover (heterosexual)                                               
     (02)   Lover (homosexual)                                                 
     (03)   Lover (cohabitant)                                                 
     (04)   Girlfriend/boyfriend                                               
     (05)   Rival for lover/spouse (triangular)                                
     (06)   Ex-lover/spouse                                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (D)    Friend relationship (implies close or frequent                     
            association)                                                       
                                                                               
     (01)   Friend                                                             
     (02)   Cohabitant/roommate                                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (E)    Acquaintance Relationship (contact but devoid                      
            of intimacy)                                                       
                                                                               
     (01)   Neighbor--same building                                            
     (02)   Neighbor--same street/block                                        
     (03)   Other community acquaintance (school,                              
1                                                                         47   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
            residential complex, street)                                       
     (04)   Business proprietor/worker (e.g. cabbie,                           
            storeowner, store clerk)                                           
     (05)   Customer                                                           
     (06)   Patron of same bar as defendant                                    
     (07)   Third party social relationship (e.g. victim                       
            knows someone who knows defendant and would                        
            recognize defendant)                                               
     (19)   Other acquaintance                                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (F)    Legitimate Business Relationship (implies frequency or             
            longevity)                                                         
                                                                               
     (01)   Current co-worker/business associate                               
     (02)   Former co-worker/business associate                                
     (03)   Employer                                                           
     (04)   Employee                                                           
     (05)   Landlord                                                           
     (06)   Tenant                                                             
     (19)   Other legitimate business relationship                             
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (G)    Illegitimate business--drug business relationship                  
                                                                               
     (01)   Drug dealer             (10) Crack house landlord                  
     (02)   Drug user/buyer         (11) Crack house renter                    
     (03)   Drug business employee  (12) Lookout                               
     (04)   Drug rival              (13) Suspected of one of above             
     (05)   Drug partner                                                       
     (06)   Drug employer                                                      
     (07)   Drug interloper                                                    
     (08)   Current co-worker                                                  
     (09)   Former co-worker                                                   
     (19)   Other drug business relationship                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (H)    Illegitimate business-other                                        
                                                                               
     (01)   Prostitute to a pimp                                               
     (02)   Prostitute to a client                                             
     (03)   Pimp                                                               
     (04)   Client of a prostitute                                             
     (19)   Other illegitimate business relationship                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (I)    Illegitimate business--organized crime relationship                
                                                                               
     (01)   Member of defendant's syndicate                                    
     (02)   Member of syndicate--different from defendant                      
     (19)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (J)    "Juvenile" Gang Relationship                                       
1     48                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (01)   Rival gang member                                                  
     (02)   Same gang member                                                   
     (19)   Other gang relationship                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (K)    Third Party Relationship (stranger)                                
                                                                               
     (01)   Social relationship (e.g., victim knows                            
            someone who knows defendant, but victim would                      
            not recognize defendant)                                           
     (19)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (L)    Stranger relationship                                              
                                                                               
     (01)   Security guard                                                     
     (02)   Police                                                             
     (03)   Pedestrian (to motorist)                                           
     (04)   Motorist                                                           
     (05)   Heterosexual pick-up                                               
     (06)   Homosexual pick-up                                                 
     (07)   Felony victim                                                      
     (08)   Felon (reverse felony situation)                                   
     (09)   Business proprietor/worker                                         
     (10)   Patron of same bar as defendant                                    
     (19)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (M)    Other and Unknown                                                  
                                                                               
     (01)   Other                                                              
     (99)   Unknown                                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (N)    Modifiers                                                          
                                                                               
     (01)   Bystander                                                          
     (02)   Mediator                                                           
     (03)   Antagonist                                                         
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     121                VICSTAT2               Victim  status            3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating victim status to defendant at time of                   
     homicide. This status cannot be the primary status. See                   
     VICSTAT1 for the code list.                                               
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
1                                                                         49   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     122                VICSTAT3               Victim status             3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating victim status to defendant at time of                   
     homicide. This status cannot be the primary status. The order             
     of VICSTAT2 and VICSTAT3 is (usually) arbitrary. See VICSTAT1             
     for the code list.                                                        
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     123                CIRCUM1                Primary circumstance      3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the primary circumstance of the homicide.               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (A)    Homicide committed with another felony                             
            Felony-murder                                                      
                                                                               
     (01)   Robbery                                                            
     (02)   Burglary                                                           
     (03)   Sexual assault                                                     
     (04)   Arson                                                              
     (05)   Kidnapping                                                         
     (06)   Escape                                                             
            Other felony                                                       
     (07)   Larceny                                                            
     (08)   Auto theft                                                         
     (09)   Other sex offense                                                  
     (10)   Homosexual prostitution (PRETEXT FOR ROBBERY)                      
     (11)   Heterosexual prostitution (PRETEXT FOR ROBBERY)                    
     (12)   Other                                                              
     (13)   Suspected felony                                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (B)    Issue Oriented Dispute                                             
                                                                               
     (01)   Romantic triangle                                                  
     (02)   Property/money                                                     
     (03)   Drugs (users dispute over drugs                                    
            or paraphernalia)                                                  
     (04)   Business transaction/grievance                                     
     (05)   Redress of insult/personal honor                                   
     (06)   Matters of opinion                                                 
     (07)   Racial/ethnic clash                                                
     (08)   Jealousy                                                           
     (09)   Traffic dispute                                                    
1     50                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (10)   Issue unknown                                                      
     (11)   Rebuff of sexual advance                                           
     (19)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (C)    Domestic/Personal Dispute                                          
                                                                               
     (20)   Lover/spouse quarrel                                               
     (21)   Domestic quarrel (other family)                                    
     (22)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (D)    Situational Disputes                                               
                                                                               
     (30)   Barroom dispute/brawl                                              
     (31)   Legitimate recreation                                              
     (32)   Illegitimate recreation (gambling, cock                            
            fighting, etc.)                                                    
     (33)   Illegitimate recreation (drugs)                                    
     (34)   "Street" fight                                                     
     (35)   Random "street" encounter                                          
     (39)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (E)    Homicide by-product of criminal business activity                  
                                                                               
     (01)   Turf battle                                                        
     (02)   Bad deal/bad drugs                                                 
     (03)   Money owed                                                         
     (04)   Revenge for acting as                                              
            police informant                                                   
     (05)   Punishment for skimming drugs/money                                
     (06)   Stealing drugs/drug money                                          
     (07)   Dispute over drugs                                                 
     (08)   Drug manufacture                                                   
     (09)   Drug purchase/sale scam                                            
     (10)   One of the above but can't distinguish                             
     (11)   Punishment for stealing drugs/money                                
     (19)   Other-,drug business                                               
     (20)   Suspected drug business                                            
            Other criminal business activities                                 
     (30)   Prostitution                                                       
     (39)   Other                                                              
     (40)   Suspected other criminal business                                  
                                                                               
          -Drug bus.                                                           
     (12) $ owed for crack house rent                                          
     (13) Sex for drugs                                                        
     (14) Argument re drug house ops                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (F)   Homicide involved "juvenile" organized gangs                        
                                                                               
     (01)   Turf battle between rival gangs                                    
1                                                                         51   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (02)   Other gang fight between rival gang members                        
     (03)   Gang fight between members of same gang                            
     (04)   Drive-by shooting                                                  
     (05)   One of the above but can't distinguish                             
     (19)   Other gang-related                                                 
     (20)   Suspected gang activities                                          
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (G) Miscellaneous                                                         
                                                                               
     (01)   Child abuse                                                        
     (02)   Psychopath                                                         
     (03)   Gun/weapon accident                                                
     (04)   Other accident                                                     
     (05)   Assist in self-murder                                              
     (06)   Mercy killing                                                      
     (07)   Justifiable homicide by police officer                             
     (08)   Justifiable homicide by civilian                                   
     (09)   Sniper                                                             
     (10)   Reverse felony                                                     
     (11)   Unknown circumstance                                               
     (12)   Bizarre/unprovoked behavior                                        
     (13)   "Contract" killing/Hit for money/insurance scam                    
     (14)   Suicide pact                                                       
     (19)   Other                                                              
     (20)   "Thrill Kill"                                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (H) Modifying circumstances                                               
                                                                               
     (01)   Pre-meditated                                                      
     (02)   Murder-suicide                                                     
     (03)   Self-defense                                                       
     (04)   Retaliation (time lag)                                             
     (05)   Mafia related                                                      
     (06)   Gangland                                                           
     (07)   Third-party bystander                                              
     (08)   Third-party mediator/intervenor                                    
     (09)   Third-party antagonist                                             
     (10)   Result of ongoing feud                                             
     (19)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     124                CIRCUM2                Circumstance              3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the circumstance of the homicide. This field            
     cannot include the primary circumstance. See CIRCUM1 for the code list.   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
1     52                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     125                CIRCUM3                Circumstance              3     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the circumstance of the homicide. This field            
     cannot include the primary circumstance. The order of CIRCUM2             
     and CIRCUM3 is (usually) arbitrary. See CIRCUM1 for the code list.        
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     126                DRUGTY                 Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the drug type associated with CIRCUM group              
     E. This field must be blank unless one of the CIRCUM variables            
     is E##.                                                                   
                                                                               
     (01)   Heroin                                                             
     (02)   PCP                                                                
     (03)   Crack                                                              
     (04)   Cocaine                                                            
     (05)   Marijuana                                                          
     (06)   Barbiturate                                                        
     (07)   Methadone                                                          
     (08)   Amphetamine                                                        
     (09)   Hallucinogen                                                       
     (10)   Tranquilizer                                                       
     (11)   Paraphernalia (rolling papers, needles, vials,                     
            scales, etc.)                                                      
     (12)   Unknown                                                            
     (13)   Crack and cocaine                                                  
     (14)   Marijuana and cocaine                                              
     (15)   Amphetamines and cocaine                                           
     (16)   Heroin and tranquilizers                                           
     (17)   Heroin and barbiturates                                            
     (18)   Heroin and cocaine                                                 
     (19)   PCP and cocaine                                                    
     (20)   Crack and amphetamine                                              
     (21)   Tranquilizers and marijuana                                        
     (22)   Heroin and marijuana                                               
     (99)   Other                                                              
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list)                                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
1                                                                         53   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     127                DRUGEC                 Economic drug motive      2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code that indicates if the homicide was committed to obtain             
     money or property to purchase drugs, or drugs themselves.                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Known                                                                     
                                                                               
     (01)  Defendant stole $/property for drugs                                
     (02)  Defendant stole drugs                                               
     (03)  Victim stole $/property for drugs                                   
     (04)  Victim stole drugs                                                  
     (05)  Defendant stole $/property and drugs                                
     (06)  Victim stole $/property and drugs                                   
     (07)  Defendant and victim stole $/property for drugs                     
     (08)  Defendant and victim stole drugs                                    
     (09)  Defendant and victim stole $/property and drugs                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Suspected                                                                 
                                                                               
     (11)  Defendant stole $/property for drugs                                
     (12)  Defendant stole drugs                                               
     (13)  Victim stole $/property for drugs                                   
     (14)  Victim stole drugs                                                  
     (15)  Defendant stole $/property and drugs                                
     (16)  Victim stole $/property and drugs                                   
     (17)  Defendant and victim stole $/property for drugs                     
     (18)  Defendant and victim stole drugs                                    
     (19)  Defendant and victim stole $/property and drugs                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     128                DRUGECTY               Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug involved in the homicide               
     ethat involved $/property. See DRUGTY for the code list.                  
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list)                                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     129                DRUGPH                 Pharm. drug motive        2     
                                                                               
1     54                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating whether an underlying cause of the homicide             
     was drug use at the time of the homicide.                                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Known                                                                     
                                                                               
     (01)  Defendant ingested drugs                                            
     (02)  Defendant was experiencing drug withdrawal                          
     (03)  Victim ingested drugs                                               
     (04)  Victim was experiencing drug withdrawal                             
     (05)  Victim and defendant ingested drugs                                 
     (06)  Victim and defendant were experiencing drug withdrawal              
     (07)  Victim and defendant were ingesting and withdrawing                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Suspected                                                                 
                                                                               
     (11)  Defendant ingested drugs                                            
     (12)  Defendant was experiencing drug withdrawal                          
     (13)  Victim ingested drugs                                               
     (14)  Victim was experiencing drug withdrawal                             
     (15)  Victim and defendant ingested drugs                                 
     (16)  Victim and defendant were experiencing drug withdrawal              
     (17)  Victim and defendant were ingesting and withdrawing                 
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     130                DRUGPHTY               Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug involved if the homicide               
     incident was caused by the use of or withdrawal from drugs. See           
     DRUGTY for code list.                                                     
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list)                                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     131                DRUGOTH                Other drug motive         1     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating that drug use was somehow involved in the               
     homicide incident, but could not otherwise be coded. (For                 
     example, a husband and wife are having a domestic dispute about           
     his drug addiction.)                                                      
                                                                               
     (01) Yes                                                                  
1                                                                         55   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (02) No                                                                   
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     132                DRUGOTHT               Drug type                 2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code indicating the type of drug involved if DRUGOTH is 01.             
     See DRUGTY for code list.                                                 
                                                                               
     (See variable # 70 for complete list)                                     
                                                                               
     ......................................................................    
                                                                               
     Variable           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                   Label                Length     
                                                                               
     133                JUSHOM                 Justifiable homicide      2     
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A code elaborating on the characteristics of those cases                  
     considered to be justifiable homicides. This field is blank               
     unless REJREAS is 10, and one of the CIRCUM variables is G07 or           
     G08.                                                                      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (01)   Criminal attacked police officer and that officer                  
            killed criminal                                                    
     (02)   Criminal attacked police officer and criminal                      
            killed by another police officer                                   
     (03)   Criminal attacked a civilian                                       
     (04)   Criminal attempted flight from a crime                             
     (05)   Criminal killed in commission of a crime                           
     (06)   Criminal resisted arrest                                           
     (99)   Unable to determine/not enough information                         
                                                                               
     .....................................................................     
                                                                               
     Varaible           Variable                                               
     Number             Name                  Label                Length      
                                                                               
                        CID                   County id #               2      
                                                                               
                                                                               
     This is a numeric code identifying the county in which the incident       
     occured.                                                                  
                                                                               
     (1)  Chicago, Illinois                                                    
     (2)  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                           
     (3)  Dallas, Texas                                                        
     (4)  Miami, Florida                                                       
1     56                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (5)  Manhattan, New York                                                  
     (6)  San Diego, California                                                
     (7)  Seattle, Washington                                                  
     (8)  Detroit, Michigan                                                    
     (9)  Los Angeles, California                                              
     (10)  New Orleans, Louisiana                                              
     (11)  Littleton, Colorado                                                 
     (12)  New Haven, Connecticut                                              
     (13)  Prince George'S County, Maryland                                    
     (14)  Orlando, Florida                                                    
     (15)  Orange County, California                                           
     (16)  Queens, New York                                                    
     (17)  Riverside, California                                               
     (18)  Albuquerque, New Mexico                                             
     (19)  Pittsburg, Pennsylvania                                             
     (20)  Saint Louis, Missouri                                               
     (21)  Cambridge, Massachusetts                                            
     (22)  Columbus, Ohio                                                      
     (23)  Rochester, New York                                                 
     (24)  Memphis, Tennessee                                                  
     (25)  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                                             
     (26)  Fort Lauderdale, Florida                                            
     (27)  Denver, Colorado                                                    
     (28)  Fort Worth, Texas                                                   
     (29)  Tucson, Arizona                                                     
     (30)  Austin, Texas                                                       
     (31)  Brooklyn, New York                                                  
     (32)  Bakersfield, California                                             
     (33)  Dayton, Ohio                                                        
                                                                               
1                                                                         57   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                              APPENDIX A                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                       HOW TO CHOOSE PRIMARY DEFENDANTS                        
                                                                               
           To facilitate analysis of the victim based file, primary            
      defendants had to be selected from those incidents involving more        
      than one defendant.  Each defendant has been assigned one of the         
      following PRIMDEFN codes:                                                
                                                                               
          01-Clearly primary                                                   
          02-Arbitrary primary                                                 
          03-Arbitrary not primary                                             
          04-Clearly not primary                                               
          05-Single defendant case                                             
                                                                               
         In general, the question to keep in mind when assessing the status    
      of a defendant is "What would have happened to this victim without       
      the participation of this defendant?"                                    
                                                                               
         In many cases, all the defendants seem to have been involved to       
      the same degree and received more or less the same dispositions. In      
      these cases, any of the defendants could have been designated as pri-    
      mary, so for analytical purposes a 02 should be assigned to one of       
      the defendants and a 03 to the other. (There is some coder discretion    
      at this point to assign 02 to the defendant whose demographic            
      information or prior record information is more complete, thus           
      providing a fuller picture at the time of analysis of the victim-        
      defendant pair). Once a 02 has been assigned to one of the               
      defendants, the other defendant(s) must be assigned a 03, with           
      one exception:  Sometimes when there are more than two defendants        
      associated with a case, and 02-03 designations are appropriate           
      for two or more of them, there still might be one defendant who          
      was arrested with the bunch but clearly not involved to the              
      extent of the rest. This defendant should be assigned a                  
      04.                                                                      
                                                                               
           In other cases, there is clearly one defendant who                  
      was responsible for the murder while the others just went along.         
      These cases are most easily identified by comparing the charges          
      at arrest and indictment. The clearly primary defendant will be          
      charged with some degree of murder, and the other(s) with                
      something like accessory to murder. Other flags to check would be        
      the DSCENE and CIRCUM variables. If one of the defendants is a           
      mediator, antagonist, or bystander, then s/he might be a good            
      candidate for a 04. Finally, in most instances, a defendant whose        
      case was rejected is a 04.                                               
                                                                               
           Once a defendant has been  designated with a 01, all the            
      others must receive a 04. There are no exceptions to this rule.          
                                                                               
      Some things to consider when assigning PRIMDEFN values:                  
                                                                               
         Usually the primary defendant was the person who "pulled the          
1     58                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      trigger," and this action is reflected in the disposition                
      information. This defendant has been chosen as clearly primary           
      (01), even if someone else masterminded the incident. However,           
      felony murder defendants appear to be treated exactly alike in           
      most jurisdictions, and thus the trigger man would be given a 02.        
      Gang cases can go either way. Usually the gang members should be         
      viewed equally, with the gun man designated as a 02. However,            
      sometimes the way the incident transpired suggests that one gang         
      member was responsible for the course of events that ended in the        
      murder, with other gang members appearing more as auxiliaries. In        
      these cases the primary defendant is given a 01.                         
                                                                               
           Beware of relying solely on the disposition/sentence information    
      for indications of who the true "bad guy" was. Often the other           
      defendants' testimony will be used to send one of the defendants         
      away for a long time in exchange for leniency. These dealings are        
      never explicitly addressed in the handwritten summary of the             
      murder, but can be surmised from the fact that each was involved         
      identically in the murder, but one was found guilty at trial             
      while others pleaded earlier.                                            
                                                                               
           If the case file is missing for a defendant who, according to the   
      description is clearly primary, then the available defendants can        
      only be considered as arbitrary and non-primary (02 and 03).             
      (Clearly if we only have one defendant available for such a case,        
      but we have information to believe that a clearly primary                
      defendant was associated with the case, the available defendant          
      is given a somewhat misleading 05.)                                      
                                                                               
                If one of the defendants has been coded up, but his            
      disposition is "open," usually none of the others can be assumed         
      to be clearly primary: often there is important information in           
      the pending case file (to which we did not have access).                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                                                         59   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                 APPENDIX B                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
                     HOMICIDE DATA COLLECTION INSTRUMENT                       
                                                                               
                                INSTRUCTIONS                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
      I.  Instrument Structure                                                 
                                                                               
      This instrument has three separate sections: Incident, Defendant         
      and Victim/Offense. The incident section primarily indexes the           
      number of Defendant and Victim/Offense forms associated with any         
      given incident  and identifies the prosecutor case files that were       
      used to code the information for a given incident. The Defendant         
      section contains data specific to a single defendant, independent        
      of the victim(s). The Victim/Offense section contains both data          
      specific to a single victim, independent of the defendant(s), as         
      well as data about the homicide offense. The response to certain         
      key offense variables (CIRCUM, PRIREL, and VICSTAT) are in               
      principle different for each victim/defendant pair and thus are          
      not independent of the defendant(s). Answers for these items must        
      be recorded for each victim with respect to each defendant.              
                                                                               
                                                                               
      II. Incident Section. One incident section is to be coded per homi       
      incident regardless of the number of defendants and victims involved.    
                                                                               
                                                                               
      A.    Definition of Incident. An incident is defined as the              
            murder/manslaughter of one or more victims by one or more          
            defendants at a given time and location. In this study we          
            are looking only at those murder/manslaughter incidents in         
            which at least one defendant is arrested on a charge of            
            murder or non-negligent manslaughter. By definition an             
            arrest charge of murder/manslaughter means at least one            
            person died.                                                       
                                                                               
           1.   In a very small number of cases it is possible that a          
                defendant was arrested for a less serious crime than           
                murder/manslaughter but the prosecutor later elevated          
                the charges to include murder/manslaughter. We would           
                want to include such a case in the homicide data set.          
                Technically this means the data set includes all               
                incidents in which someone was ever charged with murder/       
                manslaughter. Since this is such a rare event the              
                practical definition of the incident data set is best          
                stated as above in terms of arrest charges.                    
                                                                               
           2.   Most incidents will occur at a single point in time at a       
                single location. A few will occur over a matter of hours       
                and victim(s) may be transported from one location to          
                another during the course of the crime. It is                  
                theoretically possible for a single incident involving         
                multiple victims to occur over a considerable time             
1     60                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                period: for example, when two defendants are abducted          
                and one is murdered on day one and the other is murdered       
                a week later. The key criterion for classifying such an        
                event as a single incident is the continuity of                
                interaction between the victim and the defendant between       
                the initial and final murder.                                  
                                                                               
           3.   Murders of more than one victim by the same defendant(s)       
                should be considered separate incidents when the murders       
                occur at distinctly separate times and locations and           
                either the victims are not known to one another and/or         
                there is no continuity of interaction between the victim(      
                s) and defendant(s) between the separate murders. For          
                example, a defendant who goes on a murder spree and            
                murders two victims unknown to one another in two              
                separate robberies of convenience stores over a 24 to 48       
                hour period would be considered two incidents.                 
                Similarly, a drug dealer who sets out to kill two rival        
                dealers who are partners but stalks and kills each             
                independently over a two day period should be counted as       
                two separate incidents as long as no simultaneous              
                interaction took place between the two victims and the         
                defendant during the period of the two murders.                
                                                                               
                                                                               
                4.   If a case is encountered in which it is not clear         
                whether multiple murders should be classified as single        
                or multiple incidents, code the murders as a single            
                incident and flag the case for review at Abt prior to          
                data entry. Make sure sufficient information is collected      
                to recode the case as a multiple incident at a later date.     
                                                                               
      B.    Incidents and Prosecutors' Case Files. In most cases the PFA       
            definition of an incident will correspond to the prosecutors'      
            definition of a case. To a large extent this is true because       
            most homicides involve only one defendant and one victim.          
                                                                               
                1.   The most common deviation from the one case-one           
                incident situation is a multiple defendant incident in         
                which cases against separate defendants are handled            
                separately. Question B 3, Section I is designed to             
                identify this situation and instructs the coder to             
                identify and pull together all the case files that deal        
                with a single incident so that only one incident is            
                ultimately coded. We do not want to erroneously count a        
                single incident twice because the cases of co-defendants       
                have been separated. (See additional instructions under        
                defendant section.)                                            
                                                                               
                2.   It is also possible that prosecutors may combine two      
                separate incidents involving the same defendant(s) into        
                a single case. In some states by statute this cannot be        
                appears that a case file involves two or more murders          
                that are distinctly separate incidents it will be necessary    
1                                                                         61   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                to code two complete HOMICIDE DATA COLLECTION                  
                INSTRUMENTS. Question B 2, Section I is designed to            
                identify this situation and instructs the coder to             
                complete two separate incidents.                               
                                                                               
                3.   Depending on the practices of the district attorneys'     
                offices, a murder case may be rejected or nolled at one        
                point, rebrought with more evidence later, and then            
                successfully prosecuted. Thus, one defendant/victim pair       
                can appear more than once for the same incident. The           
                data base will be able to pull the different court             
                events together. However, if you notice while in the           
                field that a defendant or victim has reappeared, try to        
                group the instruments accordingly. (This does mean that        
                separate instruments should be completed for both the          
                rejected/nolled and prosecuted case, even though the           
                homicide incident is the same.)                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
      III. Defendant Section. For each murder/manslaughter incident, one       
      defendant section is to be coded for each defendant arrested on a        
      murder/manslaughter charge. The number of defendants should be           
      reflected on page 2 of the coding form, item number 3, and this          
      number should indicate the number of defendant sections to be            
      completed for the incident. However, it is possible that some            
      people involved in a homicide incident were never arrested. They         
      should be listed on the incident cover sheet, along with the rest        
      of the offenders, with a note that they are still at large. Thus,        
      the number of offenders on page 1 can be greater than the number         
      of defendants indicated on page 2.                                       
                                                                               
      A.    Definition of Murder/Manslaughter Defendants. The capture data     
            set for this study is all murder/manslaughter incidents in         
            which at least one defendant was arrested on a murder/             
            manslaughter charge and whose case reached a final                 
            disposition in 1988. The original arrest may have occurred         
            in 1988 or any previous year.                                      
                                                                               
           1.   It is important to note that even if the prosecutor did        
                not file a charge of murder or manslaughter, or the            
                defendant was ultimately convicted of another crime, or        
                not convicted at all, we would still consider the              
                defendant a Murder/Manslaughter Defendant based on the         
                original arrest charge of murder/manslaughter. The only        
                criterion used to define the defendant set is whether or       
                not an arrest for murder/manslaughter                          
                occurred.                                                      
                                                                               
           2.   In some multiple defendant cases it is possible that one       
                defendant arrested for murder/manslaughter had his/her         
                case disposed in 1988 (i.e. the case that kicked the           
                incident into our data set), but other co-defendants           
                still have murder/manslaughter cases pending at the time       
                of data collection. We should code a defendant section         
1     62                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                for each defendant with a pending case as long as the          
                defendant was arrested for murder/manslaughter. The            
                disposition of such a case is to be coded as OPEN. See         
                further instructions below.                                    
                                                                               
           3.   Felony murders. In felony murders a given defendant does       
                not have to have committed the actual act of murder to         
                be so charged. Felony murder is typically defined by           
                state statutes as a death that occurs as a result of the       
                commission of a felony crime. Frequently the list of           
                felony crimes is specified in the state statute and most       
                often includes: robbery, arson, kidnapping, sexual             
                assault, burglary and escape. Individual states might          
                specify other felony crimes as well, e.g. in Florida           
                drug trafficking was a felony murder crime and third           
                degree murder specified any felony not mentioned in the        
                statute sections on first and second degree murder.            
                                                                               
                A defendant may be charged with felony murder even if he       
                /she did not inflict the damage but did participate in         
                the felony. In Miami we had a couple of cases in which         
                defendants were charged with felony murder when their co-      
                defendant was killed by the original felony crime victim       
                or the police. Thus it is quite possible to find cases         
                in which a defendant is charged with murder but the            
                description of the event does not indicate that the            
                defendant actually killed the victim. In designating           
                felony murder defendants as murder defendants we will          
                follow the local statutory definitions and charging            
                practices of the police and prosecutor. We will, in            
                other words, not attempt to impose our own definition of       
                murder, or to adjust for differences in the definition         
                of felony murder among jurisdictions. If a person is           
                charged with felony murder by the police or prosecutor         
                in a given jurisdiction, he/she should be considered a         
                murder/manslaughter defendant regardless of their role in      
                the actual killing.                                            
                                                                               
      B.    Defendants and Prosecutors' Case Files. Multiple defendant         
            incidents may be prosecuted as a single case or as multiple        
            cases. Rules for coding multiple defendant incidents are           
            specified below.                                                   
                                                                               
           1.   Most murder/manslaughter case files will contain               
                information on all the defendants arrested for murder/         
                manslaughter for a given incident. Code one defendant          
                section for each defendant arrested on a murder/               
                manslaughter charge. If the case file contains a case          
                against a defendant who was involved in the incident but       
                was not arrested or later charged with murder/                 
                manslaughter do not code a defendant section for such a        
                defendant. However, do note on the incident cover sheet        
                the names of these defendants and, if known, their charges     
                at arrest e.g., John Doe, Breaking and Entering Occupied       
1                                                                         63   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                Dwelling).                                                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
          2.   If it is clear from a case file that other defendants were      
               arrested on murder/manslaughter charges for this incident       
                but the cases against them were handled separately, the        
                additional case file(s) should be located and separate         
                defendant sections coded for the additional defendant(         
                s). Even if the additional cases are still open,               
                additional defendant sections should be coded as long as       
                the defendants were arrested on murder/manslaughter            
                charges. Cases arising from the incident but involving         
                defendants arrested on charges other than murder/              
                manslaughter should be ignored.                                
                                                                               
           3.   In some instances tracking down the additional cases may       
                be very time consuming and not likely to be successful.        
                If the defendant's demographics and case disposition can       
                be coded from the first co-defendant's case file, that         
                would be an acceptable solution to obtaining the               
                additional information. When this is done, indicate that       
                prior record and information at time of offense is not         
                available (unless this too can be coded from the co-           
                defendant's file). Another possible way to obtain              
                demographic and disposition information is to ask              
                someone in the office to pull the case up on a terminal.       
                Disposition and demographic information is almost always       
                in the computer.                                               
                                                                               
           4.   If it appears from the case file that other defendants         
                were involved in the incident but were never                   
                apprehended, note this on the incident cover sheet but         
                do not code a separate defendant section for such              
                defendants. This rule applies to defendants for whom           
                arrest warrants may have been issued but are still at          
                large.                                                         
                                                                               
                                                                               
      IV. Victim/Offense Section. One Victim/offense Section must be           
      filled out for each victim who died as a result of the incident.         
                                                                               
      A.    Definition of Victim. A victim is any person who died as a         
            result of the incident. Victims' deaths need not occur             
            during an incident. A  person who dies from injuries               
            sustained during an incident is a  victim, even if his/her         
            death does not occur for weeks or months.  Victims who did         
            not die (e.g., victims of robbery only in a robbery  murder        
            incident) are not included in the study. They may be               
            mentioned in the narrative however.                                
                                                                               
      B.    Victim Specific Information (Section III. A and B). The            
            demographic  and prior record information is independent of        
            defendants. The  victim's relationship to the defendant is         
            irrelevant to the  information coded in this section.              
1     64                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      C.    Victim/Offense Information (Section III. C) Questions 1.           
            PRIREL, 2. VICSTAT, and 3. CIRCUM need to be filled out for        
            each victim/defendant pair. This information, in other             
            words, is not independent of the victim's relationship to          
            the defendant, either prior to or during the                       
            crime.                                                             
                                                                               
           1.   For a single victim/single defendant homicide only one         
                victim  offense section (in the main text of the               
                instrument) needs to be completed.                             
                                                                               
           2.   For a single victim/multiple defendant homicide the            
                PRIREL/VICSTAT/CIRCUM questions must be answered for each      
                defendant. A PRIREL/VICSTAT/CIRCUM supplemental sheet must     
                be  filled out for each additional defendant after the         
                first, which is coded in the main instrument.                  
                                                                               
           3.   For a multiple victim/multiple defendant homicide the          
                PRIREL/VICSTAT/CIRCUM questions must be answered for each      
                victim with respect to each defendant (i.e., a two             
                victim/two defendant homicide will require two complete        
                victim sections and for each  victim one supplemental          
                PRIREL/VICSTAT/CIRCUM sheet for the  second                    
                defendant).                                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
      V. Miscellaneous General Instructions                                    
                                                                               
      A.    The coding of yes/no/no information questions. Code a              
            positive response, either "yes" or "no", if you find an            
            explicit reference to the concept in question in the case          
            file. If the concept in question is not addressed within the       
            case file code "no information" e.g., (if the case file does       
            not mention the victim's weapon do not  assume he or she was       
            unarmed: code "no information").                                   
                                                                               
      B.    Code "Suspected" if suspicion is explicitly noted in the case      
            file  or if the instrument specifically states that you            
            should use your  judgment and you are suspicious.                  
                                                                               
      C.    Code "Unknown" only if the case file explicitly states that        
            the concept in question is unknown (e.g., the arrest report        
            says race unknown" and no other information is available).         
                                                                               
                                                                               
      D.    The coding of "no information" in itemized questions. Code "no     
            information" if no reference to the concept in question can be     
            found in the case file and it is clear that there should have      
            been one (e.g., the defendant's race should be noted on the        
            arrest form. If it can't be found there or anywhere else, then     
            code "no information").                                            
                                                                               
1                                                                         65   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      E.    If multiple responses to a single question seem appropriate,       
            code  them all but be sure to designate one response as            
            primary.                                                           
                                                                               
      F.    If you are ever confused or in doubt as to how a particular        
            question should be coded, please write a marginal note             
            explaining the situation. The analysis staff will review           
            these notes and provide  feedback where necessary.                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
      VI. Item by Item Instructions                                            
                                                                               
       Section I. Incident Section                                             
                                                                               
               NONE                                                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
       Section II. Defendant Section                                           
                                                                               
      A.1.  Police ID. If not readily available do not spend time              
      attempting to track down this item. The purpose is to identify           
      unique defendants who show up more than once in the data set. It         
      will be used to pick out multiple murderers as well as identify          
      duplicate cases due to bookkeeping. This can also be done based on       
      DOB, defendant name, and date of offense.                                
                                                                               
      A.7.  Defendant DOB. If DOB is missing but age is available,             
      subtract age from year of arrest to determine birth year. For            
      example, if age is 22 and year of arrest is 1988, the DOB is 00-00-      
      66.                                                                      
                                                                               
      A.9.  Ethnicity. If files routinely record "hispanic" utilize that       
      information and do not attempt to use your own judgment.                 
                                                                               
      If files do not routinely record "hispanic" and it appears               
      information is being lost, other sources of information may be used      
      to infer ethnicity. Such sources include name, in conjunction with       
      residence in an hispanic community within the jurisdiction, photos,      
      references in narrative documents indicating the person is hispanic,     
      indications that the person is Spanish speaking, etc. Ethnicity,         
      however, should not be inferred from name alone. In jurisdictions        
      where it is necessary to infer ethnicity from such sources it will       
      be important to document how this was generally accomplished. After      
      data collection is complete, please write a brief paragraph              
      explaining how and the general frequency with which inferences were      
      made.                                                                    
                                                                               
      A.12  Defendant's Current Residence. If answer is unclear between 01     
      and 02, code 01 as long as residence is within the prosecutor's          
      jurisdiction, i.e. the county. If defendant is a migrant worker or       
      an illegal alien, also circle his or her usual residence if it is        
      known.                                                                   
                                                                               
      B.1.  Paper/Initial Filing Date. If a case is filed, enter here the      
1     66                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      first formal court filing date for the jurisdiction (or the              
      best approximation). In most jurisdictions this is initial filing        
      in the lower court. In those jurisdictions where cases skip lower        
      court proceedings, the initial filing date is the felony court           
      filing  date, as in Miami and New Orleans. In San Diego the first        
      court  filing is in Municipal Court. The local terminology is "          
      issue date".                                                             
                                                                               
      If a case is rejected, code the best approximation of the date that      
      this decision is made. Terminology will vary among jurisdictions         
      (e.g., screening date, no action date, no paper date, declination        
      date, etc.).                                                             
                                                                               
      B.2.  Indictment Date. "Indictment" in this study is used as a           
      generic term to designate cases carried forward to the felony            
      court whether by indictment, a bind over decision at a preliminary       
      hearing, or the mere filing of an information in the felony court.       
      Indictment date is thus the date a case is designated for felony         
      prosecution and it may be an actual grand jury indictment date,          
      date an information was filed, or in some jurisdictions the best         
      approximation is the felony court arraignment date. A felony court       
      arraignment typically occurs shortly after the formal bindover,          
      indictment, etc. In San Diego and Los Angeles we will use the            
      Superior Court arraignment date.                                         
                                                                               
      B.3.  Final Disposition Date. This is the date a case is rejected,       
      dismissed in court, disposed by a defendant's plea of guilty, or by      
      a trial conviction or acquittal. Substantively, in other words, this     
      is the date a determination is made regarding conviction versus non-     
      conviction.                                                              
                                                                               
      NOTE: For a rejected case the rejection and disposition date are the     
      same, and should be entered on the form twice as both screening date     
      and disposition date.                                                    
                                                                               
      B.4.  Sentence Date. Date sentence is imposed. In some cases (especially 
      guilty pleas) this may be the same as the disposition date. In most      
      jurisdictions sentencing is typically several weeks after                
      disposition.                                                             
                                                                               
      B.5.  Was defendant indicted? (See notes above under B.2. regarding      
      generic use of term indictment.) Indictment for the purpose of this      
      study means carried forward to the felony court for prosecution. In      
      jurisdictions with a three-stage prosecution system (i.e.,               
      screening, lower court processing, and felony court processing),         
      there will undoubtedly be murder cases that are disposed in the          
      lower court. Most of these should be dismissals (i.e., these will        
      be cases for which prior to bindover some problem is identified that     
      leads the prosecutor to determine that felony prosecution is             
      inappropriate). Bookkeeping dismissals might also show up here. For      
      the purpose of the PFA study a case charged as a felony but              
      dismissed in lower court would not be considered an indicted case.       
                                                                               
      It is also possible in some jurisdictions for a felony plea to be        
1                                                                         67   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      taken and a felony sentence to be imposed in the lower court. In         
      some places this is purely an administrative matter and the court of     
      record is still the felony court. In other jurisdictions, authority      
      to take pleas and sentence certain types of felony cases has been        
      formally given to the lower court. Typically these are less serious      
      cases. It would seem unlikely for a murder case to be disposed in        
      this way but the coder should be aware that it is possible. For the      
      purpose of the PFA study a case disposed on a felony plea in the         
      lower court would be considered an indicted case.                        
                                                                               
      B.6.  Charge History. Even if the case was rejected, it is important     
      to note the exact charge at arrest. More generally, it is very           
      important to capture all charges ever associated with a case as          
      charges are often added or dropped as a case proceeds through the        
      court process. Typically, the most serious charges are those at          
      arrest. The most serious charge at conviction is often a less            
      serious charge than the most serious charge at arrest. Because this      
      appears to be especially true for murder cases given the extensive       
      investigation necessary to come to a final determination of the          
      appropriate conviction charge, it is very important to indicate          
      those charges that ultimately resulted in a conviction.                  
                                                                               
      B.7.  Disposition Outcome. There are two instances where the case        
      might be coded as open. First, if more than one defendant was charged    
      with homicide for a given incident, but not all were disposed in 1988    
      (i.e., some defendant dispositions are pending), then the case is        
      still open. If you are coding a form for the defendant whose fate is     
      yet to be decided, code only "open." If the defendant at hand has        
      received a disposition, code that disposition.                           
                                                                               
      It is also possible for the murder charge to have been rejected or       
      nolied for a given defendant, but accompanying lesser charges are        
      still pending. If a case shows up in the data set with this              
      characteristic, code the disposition outcome for the murder charge,      
      write in parentheses that the disposition was for the murder charge,     
      and code "open" as the primary disposition.                              
                                                                               
      B.8.  Reason for rejection/dismissal. If the prosecutor wrote a          
      rejection/dismissal reason that clearly falls into one of the            
      categories, do not write out the reason. If the prosecutor's reason      
      seems to cover a number of the categories, indicate which you think      
      is primary with a verbatim rejection/dismissal summary.                  
                                                                               
      Note that "inability to disprove self-defense" should be coded as        
      "lack of evidence" instead of "self-defense." "Self-defense,"            
      "justifiable homicide," and "accident" should be coded only when         
      that is the prosecutor's view. Do not use coder judgment on these        
      items as the correct answer requires expert legal opinion.               
                                                                               
      C.2.  Defendant Prior Arrests, Convictions, Sentences. We want to count  
      arrests, convictions, and sentences associated with criminal events,     
      not all the individual charges associated with a single criminal         
      event. As a rule of thumb do not count more than one arrest,             
      conviction, etc. per given day.                                          
1     68                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      In counting Any Arrests count all felony and misdemeanor arrests,        
      but be careful not to count more than one arrest per day, even if        
      there is more than one charge associated with the arrest. In             
      counting Violent Arrests, count all arrests with at least one            
      violent crime charge, but do not count the violent arrest more than      
      once, even if there is more than one violent charge associated with      
      the arrest. Violent crimes are defined as murder, rape, robbery,         
      assault, kidnapping, and burglary. In counting Drug Arrests, count       
      all arrests with at least one drug charge, but do not count the drug     
      arrest more than once, even if there is more than one drug charge        
      associated with the arrest. Thus it is possible for some arrests to      
      be counted as both violent and drug arrests.                             
                                                                               
       All rules regarding to the counting of arrests, convictions,            
      probations, etc. pertain to ADULT records only. Information about        
      juvenile records may be noted in the margin, with a sentence             
      indicating of the juvenile career was particularly lengthy or            
      violent.                                                                 
                                                                               
      D.1.  Why was the defendant on the scene? "Mediator/Intervenor" should   
      be coded as primary if the defendant was explicitly on the scene to      
      mediate. Otherwise, the activity in which the defendant was engaging     
      prior to being called upon to act as mediator/intervenor should be       
      the primary one.                                                         
                                                                               
      If the defendant was a third party antagonist who intended to join       
      in an ongoing dispute when he/she arrived on the scene should be         
      coded as "Settling dispute/seeking confrontation." Third party           
      antagonists who were on the scene with some other intent should be       
      classified based on that other intent.                                   
                                                                               
      "Committing crime against person" should only be coded for               
      situations in which the defendant was committing a crime, other than     
      murder, against a person.                                                
                                                                               
      "Gang activity" is appropriate when the defendant is a member of a       
      gang and the activity in which he was engaging at the time of the        
      homicide was in the name of the gang, to enhance the gang's status,      
      etc. Do not code "gang activity" if the defendant was a member of a      
      gang, but his/her activity at the time of the homicide was not gang-     
      related. However, be sure to indicate that the defendant is a gang       
      member in question II.D.8.                                               
                                                                               
      For those rare occasions when the defendant's only reason to be on       
      the scene was to kill the victim, use code 41, "To kill victim."         
      This would be appropriate when the prosecutor believed the case was      
      pre-meditated and the circumstance was, for example, a contract          
      killing or a plot to kill.                                               
                                                                               
      D.5.  History of mental illness. "Yes" should be coded if family members 
      or friends state that the defendant has a history of mental illness,     
      if psychiatric reports indicate mental illness, hospitalizations for     
      mental illness have occurred, or the defendant has tried to kill         
1                                                                         69   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      him/herself.                                                             
                                                                               
      D.6.  History of drug abuse. Drug dealing and arrests for possession or  
      trafficking do not constitute drug abuse. Medical records, hospital      
      stays, and witness statements may be used to assess history of drug      
      abuse.                                                                   
                                                                               
      D.7   Drug dealer. Police suspicions, witness statements, and prior      
      convictions for trafficking can be used as a basis for coding yes.       
                                                                               
      D.8.  Gang member. Police reports, family/friends testimony, witness     
      statements, and prior gang activity can be used to assess                
      defendant's gang membership.                                             
                                                                               
                                                                               
      Section III. Victim/Offense Information                                  
                                                                               
      A.5.  Victim Date of Birth. As per defendant instruction, II.A.7. (Note  
      that victim age should be subtracted from the year of the offense,       
      not from year of the arrest.)                                            
                                                                               
      A.7.  Ethnicity. As per defendant instruction, II.A.9.                   
                                                                               
      A.10  Victim's Current Residence. As per defendant instruction, II.A.12. 
                                                                               
      B.2.  Victim's Prior Arrests, Convictions, Sentences. As per defendant   
      instruction, II.C.2.                                                     
                                                                               
      C.2.  Victim Status. Check each specific status/relationship that        
      applies. If necessary to check more than one per major status group,     
      indicate which is primary. Circle the letter of the major status         
      group that is the primary victim status at the time of the homicide.     
                                                                               
          G. Interloper. Although an interloper may be engaged in the          
          drug business, his/her primary purpose at the time of the murder     
          is to rob either money or drugs from individuals engaged in drug     
          business activity.                                                   
                                                                               
          G. Other drug business relationship. This line item includes         
          victims who were the target of a drug-related contract killing.      
                                                                               
          K. Antagonist. This is the flip side of mediator/intervenor.         
          An antagonist joins the conflict even though it had not, as yet,     
          directly involved him/her. The victim is the "third man in"          
          during a bar fight, or the victim entered the conflict to            
          redress an insult directed at a friend/lover/acquaintance.           
                                                                               
      C.3.  Circumstance. Check each specific circumstance that helps to       
      characterize the nature of the homicide, including items listed          
      under modifying circumstances. If necessary to check more than one       
      item per major status group, indicate which is primary. Circle the       
      letter of the major homicide type (items A - F, excluding modifying      
      circumstances) that best describes the motive for this homicide.         
                                                                               
1     70                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
          B, C, D. Dispute Homicides. In principle all dispute situations      
          should be issue oriented, but often it will not be possible to       
          determine the issue. Categories C - Domestic/Personal, and D -       
          Situational, are to be used alone when it is not possible to         
          determine the issue of the dispute, or with B 10 - Issue             
          unknown. If an issue can be specified in combination with            
          Domestic/Personal and/or Situational, the best way to code would     
          be to circle both the issue in section B and the appropriate         
          item in either section C or D. The category that best describes      
          the homicide is left to the judgment of the coder.                   
                                                                               
          In some disputes it could be argued that the immediate issue is      
          not what actually led to the homicide. This is most likely to        
          apply to disputes that arise among intimates. However, please        
          code the dispute that occurred at the time of the homicide, and      
          if necessary check a modifier such as "retaliation" or "on-going     
          feud."                                                               
                                                                               
      D. 34 and 35. "Street" fight and Random "street" encounter. The          
      former implies that an antagonistic dispute, however trivial,            
      took place between victim and defendant prior to the homicide            
      (e.g., "Don't step on my blue suede shoes"). However, it may not         
      be possible to determine the nature of the dispute. The latter           
      implies that one party responded to a normal everyday encounter          
      by randomly/irrationally escalating it into a hostile dispute            
      (e.g., the response to "Are you finished with the pay                    
      telephone?" is a bullet to the head).                                    
                                                                               
      E. 02. Bad deal/bad drugs. This circumstance is most appropriate         
      when a buyer is angry because s/he purchased inferior or                 
      counterfeit drugs.                                                       
                                                                               
      E. 07. Dispute over drugs. A dispute over drugs describes those          
      situations where dealers or traffickers, or others involved in           
      the business of drugs, are involved in a drug related                    
      disagreement, such as the way a shipment should be cut or                
      distributed. This code is not intended to include those                  
      situations where users are fighting over who should smoke the            
      last rock. Such a disagreement is appropriately classified as            
      B. 03.- Users dispute (over drugs or paraphernalia).                     
                                                                               
      E. 09. Drug purchase/sale scam. This circumstance pertains to            
      those situations when the buyer never intended to give the               
      seller money, but pretended s/he was going to (e.g., displayed a         
      paper bag with green sheets in it), or the seller produced a             
      bale with marijuana on the outside and cardboard in the center.          
                                                                               
      G. 02. Psychopath. This code is appropriate if the defendant             
      was insane at the time of the homicide and was either acquitted          
      due to insanity, sentenced to a psychiatric facility, or found           
      incompetent to stand trial.                                              
                                                                               
      G. 03. and C. 04. Gun, weapon and other accident. Either one             
      of these circumstances should be coded when the court                    
1                                                                         71   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      adjudicates the incident as such. Either is also appropriate if          
      prosecutor notes and/or witness descriptions (other than the             
      defendant's account) claim the murder was an accident but the            
      defendant was still found guilty of a lesser murder charge or            
      manslaughter. For example, two friends play with a newly stolen          
      revolver, and one pulls the trigger, which discharges a fatal            
      bullet into the other.                                                   
                                                                               
      G. 12. Bizarre/unprovoked behavior. This category should be              
      coded when no issue or dispute is apparent from the files, but           
      the defendant "went berserk." This is likely to occur, for               
      example, when the defendant is in a drug-induced state of                
      paranoia and attacks a roommate, fatally beating him.                    
      (Incidentally, this would also be a psychopharmacological                
      incident under question 5.)                                              
                                                                               
      H. 01. Pre-meditated and H. 03. Self-defense. These codes                
      are, in most cases, only appropriate if the court adjudicated            
      the incident as such. However, if there were strong indications          
      in the prosecutor's notes that the case was pre-meditated or the         
      homicide was committed in self-defense, but the court did not            
      rule as such, these codes may be used.                                   
                                                                               
      C.11. and C.12. Offense Location-Type and Indoor/Outdoor. Quite          
      often homicide incidents "spill over" from one location into             
      another. Barroom brawls, for example, can begin inside a bar, but        
      then move outside, where the victim actually suffers the fatal           
      blow. In these situations it is important to code the locale that        
      served as the principal origin of the killing. In the above              
      example, code C.11 as "Bar/nightclub" and C.12 as "Outdoor."             
      A victim taking a fatal plunge from his/her balcony would                
      be coded as having died outside (C.12) his/her residence (C.11).         
      If the situation is ambiguous, code the location where death             
      actually occurred.                                                       
                                                                               
      If the offense location was a vehicle, code vehicle as primary, but      
      also indicate, if known, where the vehicle was at the time of the        
      homicide. For example, the victim was in his car outside his             
      office when someone shot him. Vehicle would be primary, but also         
      code workplace to supply more information about the offense              
      location.                                                                
                                                                               
      C.13  Why was the victim on the scene? As per defendant instruction,     
      II.D.1.                                                                  
                                                                               
      C.17  History of mental illness. Yes should be coded if family           
      members or friends state that the victim has a history of mental         
      illness, if psychiatric reports indicate mental illness,                 
      hospitalizations for mental illness have occurred, or the victim         
      has tried to kill him/herself.                                           
                                                                               
      C.18  History of drug abuse. Drug dealing and arrests for possession or  
      trafficking do not constitute drug abuse. Medical records, hospital      
      stays, and witness statements may be used to assess history of drug      
1     72                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      abuse.                                                                   
                                                                               
      C.19  Drug dealer. Police suspicions, witness statements, and prior      
      convictions for trafficking can be used as a basis for coding yes.       
                                                                               
      D.8.  Gang member. Police reports, family/friends testimony, witness     
      statements, and prior gang activity can be used to assess                
      defendant's gang membership.                                             
                                                                               
1                                                                         73   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                     Defendant Sections        
                                                      Victim Sections          
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                     HOMICIDE DATA COLLECTION INSTRUMENT                       
                                                                               
                                  1988 DATA                                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
                       Section I. Incident Cover Sheet                         
                          (Use 1 form per incident)                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
      A.   Identifiers                                                         
                                                                               
                                                                               
      1.   Incident Number: ____________________________   Coder: _______      
           [AAI]                                                [CODER]        
           (Assigned by supervisor after form is complete.)                    
                                                                               
                                                                               
      2.   Defendant(s) in this incident                                       
                                                                               
           (1)     Defendant 1 (D1)                                            
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ___________________________            
                                                                               
           (2)     Defendant 2 (D2)                                            
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ____________________________           
                                                                               
           (3)     Defendant 3 (D3)                                            
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ____________________________           
                                                                               
           (4)     Defendant 4 (D4)                                            
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ____________________________           
                                                                               
           (5)     Defendant 5 (D5)                                            
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ____________________________           
                                                                               
           (6)     Defendant 6 (D6)                                            
                                                                               
1     74                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                   Name [TRNAME] _______________________________________       
                   Case Number [CASENO] ____________________________           
                                                                               
                                                                               
      B.   Incident                                                            
                                                                               
      1.   Does this incident involve a charge of murder or non-negligent      
           manslaughter?                                                       
           [DEATH]                                                             
                                                                               
           (1)    Yes                                                          
           (2)    No   (If no, separate incident instruments must be           
                        coded for each incident.)                              
                                                                               
      2.   Number of victims _________                                         
           (If one victim, skip to item 3)                                     
           [NUMVICTS]                                                          
                                                                               
           If more than one victim, were they part of the same homicide        
           incident?                                                           
                                                                               
           (1)    Yes                                                          
           (2)    No   (If no, identify the additional case files associated   
                       with this incident and code only one incident           
                       instrument unless enough information is available in    
                       the case file to complete an instrument for the other   
                       defendant(s).)                                          
                                                                               
1                                                                         75   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                      HOMICIDE DATA COLLECTION INSTRUMENT                      
                                                                               
                                   1988 DATA                                   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                         Section II. Defendant Data                            
                         (Use 1 form per defendant)                            
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A.   Identifiers/Demographics                                             
                                                                               
     1.   Incident Number: ____________________________________________        
          [AAI]                                                                
                                                                               
     2.   Defendant ID (D1, D2, etc.): ________________________________        
     [DEFID]                                                                   
                                                                               
     3.   Defendant Name: _____________________________________________        
     [TRNAME]                                                                  
                                                                               
     4.   Police ID: __________________________________________________        
     [PDID]                                                                    
                                                                               
     5.   Offense Date: ___________________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [OFFDATE]                                                                 
                                                                               
     5A.  Offense Time: ___________________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [OFFTIME]                                                                 
                                                                               
     6.   Date of Arrest: _________________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [ARRDATE]                                                                 
                                                                               
     7.   Defendant Date of Birth: ________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [DOB]                                                                     
                                                                               
     8.   Defendant's Race                                                     
     [RACE]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   White                                                        
           (02)   Black                                                        
           (03)   American Indian/Alaskan Native                               
           (04)   Asian/Pacific Islander                                       
           (05)   Other                                                        
           (06)   Unknown                                                      
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     9.   Defendant's Ethnicity                                                
     [ETH]                                                                     
                                                                               
           (01)   Hispanic origin                                              
           (02)   Not of Hispanic origin                                       
1     76                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (03)   Unknown                                                      
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     10.  Defendant's Sex (May be inferred by coder.)                          
     [SEX]                                                                     
                                                                               
           (01)   Male                                                         
           (02)   Female                                                       
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     11.  Occupation (if known) _______________________________________        
     [DOCCUP]                                                                  
                                                                               
     12.  Defendant's Current Residence                                        
     [OFFRES]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   From city                                                    
           (02)   From nearby city or suburb                                   
           (03)   From other city in state                                     
           (04)   From outside of state                                        
           (05)   No address (a drifter--clearly stated)                       
           (06)   Migrant worker                                               
           (07)   Illegal alien                                                
           (08)   Unknown address                                              
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     B.   Disposition Information                                              
                                                                               
     1.   Paper/Initial Filing Date (Issuing Date): ____________________       
           (If missing--00)                                                    
     [PAPRDATE]                                                                
                                                                               
     2.   Superior Court Arraignment Date: ________________ (If missing--00)   
     [INDATE]                                                                  
                                                                               
     3.   Final Disposition Date: _________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [FACTDATE]                                                                
                                                                               
     4.   Sentence Date: __________________________________ (If missing--00)   
     [SENDATE]                                                                 
                                                                               
     5.   Was this defendant indicted?                                         
     [INDICT]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (1)    Yes                                                          
           (2)    No                                                           
                                                                               
     6.   Charge History                                                       
                                                             Active At:        
     Charge Code                           Arrest    Indictment    Conviction  
                                                                               
        1. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
1                                                                         77   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
        2. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        3. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        4. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        5. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        6. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        7. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        8. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
        9. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
                                                                               
       10. _________________________       _____        _____        _____     
                                                                               
       If charge did not result in conviction, enter N/C in "Conviction" column
                                                                               
     7.   Disposition outcome                                                  
     (FINDISPO]                                                                
                                                                               
           (01)   Rejected                                                     
           (02)   Dismissed/Nolle Prosequi                                     
           (03)   Trial - Guilty (Judge)                                       
           (04)   Trial - Guilty (Jury)                                        
           (05)   Trial - Not Guilty (Judge)                                   
           (06)   Trial - Not Guilty (Jury)                                    
           (07)   Trial - Not Guilty/Insanity (Judge)                          
           (08)   Trial - Not Guilty/Insanity (Jury)                           
           (09)   Hung jury/mistrial                                           
           (10)   Guilty Plea                                                  
           (11)   Guilty Plea to lesser                                        
           (12)   Conviction overturned on appeal                              
           (13)   Open                                                         
           (14)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
           If rejected--1 or dismissed--2:                                     
                                                                               
     8.   Reason for rejection/dismissal                                       
     [REJREAS]                                                                 
                                                                               
           (01)   Lack of evidence                                             
           (02)   Witness problem                                              
           (03)   Violations of due process (SPECIFY)                          
1     78                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (04)   Interest of justice (SPECIFY)                                
           (05)   Covered by other case                                        
           (06)   Diversion                                                    
           (07)   Extradition                                                  
           (08)   Refer for other prosecution                                  
           (09)   Self defense                                                 
           (10)   Justifiable homicide                                         
           (11)   Accident                                                     
           (12)   Defendant died                                               
           (13)   Defendant committed suicide                                  
           (14)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     Sentence Information                                                      
                                                                               
     9.   Has this defendant been sentenced?                                   
     [SENTIND]                                                                 
                                                                               
           (1)    Yes                                                          
           (2)    No                                                           
                                                                               
     10.  Verbatim Sentence Summary (top charge and most severe sentence)      
                                                                               
     11. Sentence by convicted charge                                          
         (Enter determinate sentences in minimum field)                        
                                                                               
     Charge 1 __________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
     Type                        Length (Minimum)        Length (Maximum)      
                                                                               
     ____ State Hospital          Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Probation               Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Jail                    Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Suspended  Prison       Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Prison                  Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Life                                                                 
     ____ Death                                                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
     If prison:       Consecutive ____     or Concurrent ____    with          
                      Other charge ____    or Other case ____                  
                                                                               
     Other: ____________________________________________________________       
          ___________________________________________________________________  
     ___________________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Charge 2 __________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
     Type                        Length (Minimum)        Length (Maximum)      
                                                                               
     ____ State Hospital          Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Probation               Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Jail                    Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Suspended  Prison       Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
1                                                                         79   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     ____ Prison                  Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Life                                                                 
     ____ Death                                                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
     If prison:       Consecutive ____     or Concurrent ____    with          
                      Other charge ____    or Other case ____                  
                                                                               
     Other: ____________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Charge 3 __________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
     Type                        Length (Minimum)        Length (Maximum)      
                                                                               
     ____ State Hospital          Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Probation               Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Jail                    Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Suspended  Prison       Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Prison                  Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Life                                                                 
     ____ Death                                                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
     If prison:       Consecutive ____     or Concurrent ____    with          
                      Other charge ____    or Other case ____                  
                                                                               
     Other: ____________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
                                                                               
     Charge 4 __________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
     Type                        Length (Minimum)        Length (Maximum)      
                                                                               
     ____ State Hospital          Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Probation               Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Jail                    Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Suspended  Prison       Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Prison                  Y ____ M ____ D          Y ____ M ____ D     
     ____ Life                                                                 
     ____ Death                                                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
     If prison:       Consecutive ____     or Concurrent ____    with          
                      Other charge ____    or Other case ____                  
                                                                               
     Other: ____________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
     ___________________________________________________________________       
                                                                               
1     80                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     If additional sentences, use supplement.                                  
                                                                               
     C.    Defendant Prior Record                                              
                                                                               
                                                                               
     1.    Defendant Prior Record                                              
     [PREC]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes, rap sheet in file                                       
           (02)   Yes, but no rap sheet available                              
           (03)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
           If answer is yes, complete question 2 based on the                  
           information available.                                              
                                                                               
     2.    Defendant Prior Known Arrests, Convictions, Sentences               
     [PRECTY]                                                                  
                                                                               
     Record                     Yes           Number                           
                                                                               
     Any Arrests                ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Violent Arrests            ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Drug Arrests               ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Convictions                ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Probations                 ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Incarcerations             ___           ______  Time sentenced (if known)
                                                                               
     Insuff. Info.                                                             
       to Determine             ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Check yes if it is known that defendant had any of the listed             
     types of prior record. If numbers of arrests, convictions,                
     probations, and incarcerations are easy to determine, write the           
     number. Approximate counts are acceptable.                                
                                                                               
     D.   Defendant Information (at time of offense)                           
                                                                               
     1.   Why was the defendant on the scene?                                  
     [DSCENE]                                                                  
                                                                               
          Legitimate Activity                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   At home                                                      
           (02)   In transit                                                   
           (03)   At work                                                      
           (04)   Shopping/doing errands                                       
           (05)   Recreation (public place)                                    
           (06)   Recreation (private dwelling)                                
1                                                                         81   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (07)   Mediator/intervenor                                          
           (08)   Loitering                                                    
           (09)   Collecting debt                                              
           (10)   Settling dispute/seeking confrontation                       
           (11)   Driving around/joyriding                                     
           (12)   Casual sex                                                   
                                                                               
          Illegitimate Activity                                                
                                                                               
                                             Wholesale    Retail   Can't tell  
                                                                               
           (20)   Purchasing drugs          _________    ______   __________   
           (21)   Selling drugs             _________    ______   __________   
           (22)   Doing drugs               _________    ______   __________   
           (23)   Other drug business (SPECIFY)_____________________________   
           (24)   Organized crime activity:    _____________________________   
           (25)   Gang activity                                                
           (26)   Committing property crime                                    
           (27)   Committing crime against person                              
           (28)   Prostitution (seller)                                        
           (29)   Prostitution (buyer)                                         
           (30)   Other crime                                                  
                                                                               
          Other                                                                
                                                                               
           (40)    SPECIFY                                                     
           (99)    Unknown/no information                                      
                                                                               
     2.   Alcohol in defendant (at time of offense)                            
     [OALCOH]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes                                                          
           (02)   Suspected _______________                                    
           (03)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     3.   Drugs in defendant (at time of offense)                              
     [OINDRUG] (For drug type refer to list below.)                            
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes          Type _____                                      
           (02)   Suspected _______________  Type _____                        
           (03)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     4.   Drugs or paraphernalia on defendant (at time of arrest--see          
          charge sheet)                                                        
     [OONDRUG] (For drug type refer to list below.)                            
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes          Type _____                                      
           (02)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     Drug Type List                                                            
                                                                               
1     82                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (01)   Heroin                                                       
           (02)   PCP                                                          
           (03)   Crack                                                        
           (04)   Cocaine                                                      
           (05)   Marijuana                                                    
           (06)   Barbiturate                                                  
           (07)   Methadone                                                    
           (08)   Amphetamine                                                  
           (09)   Hallucinogen                                                 
           (10)   Tranquilizer                                                 
           (11)   Paraphernalia (rolling papers, needles, vials,               
                  scales, etc.)                                                
           (12)   Other                                                        
           (13)   Unknown                                                      
                                                                               
     5.   Is there information in the case file to indicate defendant          
          has a history of mental illness?                                     
     [OFFMI]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (SPECIFY)                                                
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
     6.   Is there information in the case file to indicate defendant          
          has a history of drug/alcohol abuse?                                 
     [OFFDAB]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (SPECIFY)                                                
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
     7.   Is there information in the case file to indicate the                
          defendant is a drug dealer?                                          
     [ODEAL]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (SPECIFY)                                                
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
1                                                                         83   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                          HOMICIDE DATA COLLECTION INSTRUMENT                  
                                                                               
                                       1988 DATA                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                  Section III. Victim/Offense Information                      
                       (Use 1 form per murder victim)                          
                                                                               
                                                                               
     A.   Victim Identifiers/Demographics                                      
                                                                               
     1.   Incident Number: ______________________________                      
     [AAI]                                                                     
                                                                               
     2.   Case Number: __________________________________                      
     [CASENO]                                                                  
                                                                               
     3.   Victim ID No.: ________________________________                      
                                                                               
          (This number uniquely identifies a victim within a given             
          incident. It is supplied by the coder. First victim is V1,           
          second V2, etc.)                                                     
     [VICID]                                                                   
                                                                               
     4.   Victim's name: _______________________________________________       
     [VICNAME]                                                                 
                                                                               
     5.   Victim's Date of Birth: ______________________ (If missing--00)      
     [VDOB]                                                                    
                                                                               
     6.   Victim's Race                                                        
     [VRACE]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   White                                                        
           (02)   Black                                                        
           (03)   American Indian/Alaskan Native                               
           (04)   Asian/Pacific Islander                                       
           (05)   Other                                                        
           (06)   Unknown                                                      
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     7.   Victim's Ethnicity                                                   
     [VETH]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   Hispanic Origin                                              
           (02)   Not of Hispanic origin                                       
           (03)   Unknown                                                      
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     8.   Victim's Sex (May be inferred by coder.)                             
     [VSEX]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   Male                                                         
1     84                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (02)   Female                                                       
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     9.   Occupation (if known) ____________________________________           
     [VOCCUP]                                                                  
                                                                               
     10.  Victim's Current Residence                                           
     [VRES]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   From city                                                    
           (02)   From nearby city or suburb                                   
           (03)   From other city in state                                     
           (04)   From outside of state                                        
           (05)   No address (a drifter--clearly stated)                       
           (06)   Migrant worker                                               
           (07)   Illegal alien                                                
           (08)   Unknown address                                              
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     B.   Victim Prior Record                                                  
                                                                               
     1.   Victim Prior Record                                                  
     [VPREC]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes, rap sheet in file                                       
           (02)   Yes, but no rap sheet available                              
           (03)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
           If answer is yes, complete question 2 based on the information      
           available.                                                          
                                                                               
     2.   Victims Prior Known Arrests, Convictions, Sentences                  
     [VPRECTY]                                                                 
                                                                               
     Record                     Yes           Number                           
                                                                               
     Any Arrests                ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Violent Arrests            ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Drug Arrests               ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Convictions                ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Probations                 ___           ______                           
                                                                               
     Incarcerations             ___           ______  Time sentenced (if known)
                                                                               
     Insuff. Info.                                                             
      to specify                ___           ______                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
     C.   Offense Information                                                  
1                                                                         85   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
            INSTRUCTION: If this incident involves more than one               
            defendant, a supplemental victim status and circumstance           
            sheet must be coded.                                               
                                                                               
     1.A. Prior to day of homicide, would victim have recognized               
          defendant (D1)?                                                      
     [PRIREL]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (See 1.B.)                                               
           (02)   Likely (coder's judgment) (See 1.B.)                         
           (03)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     1.B. If yes or likely, was there information in case file that            
          relationship was short-term (e.g., few days, few weeks)?             
     [LENREL]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes                                                          
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
     2.   Victim status with respect to  defendant (D1) at time of homicide.   
     [VICSTAT]                                                                 
     (A) Family                                                                
                                                                               
           (01)   Spouse                                                       
           (02)   Common-law spouse                                            
           (03)   Parent                                                       
           (04)   Child                                                        
           (05)   Common-law child                                             
           (06)   Sibling                                                      
           (07)   Grandparent                                                  
           (08)   Grandchild                                                   
           (09)   Stepparent                                                   
           (10)   Stepbrother/sister                                           
           (11)   Stepchild                                                    
           (12)   In-law                                                       
           (13)   Cousin                                                       
           (18)   Extended family (SPECIFY)                                    
           (19)   Other family (SPECIFY)                                       
                                                                               
     (B) Other close relationship                                              
                                                                               
           (01)   Child of boyfriend/girlfriend                                
           (02)   Babysittee (the baby was victim)                             
                                                                               
     (C) Romantic                                                              
                                                                               
           (01)   Lover (heterosexual)                                         
           (02)   Lover (homosexual)                                           
           (03)   Lover (cohabitant)                                           
           (04)   Girlfriend/boyfriend                                         
           (05)   Rival for lover/spouse (triangular)                          
           (06)   Ex-lover/spouse                                              
1     86                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (D) Friend relationship (implies close or frequent association)           
                                                                               
           (01)   Friend                                                       
           (02)   Cohabitant/roommate                                          
                                                                               
     (E) Acquaintance Relationship (contact but devoid of intimacy)            
                                                                               
           (01)   Neighbor--same building                                      
           (02)   Neighbor--same street/block                                  
           (03)   Other community acquaintance (school, residential            
                  complex, street)                                             
           (04)   Business proprietor/worker (e.g. cabbie, storeowner,         
                  store clerk)                                                 
           (05)   Customer                                                     
           (06)   Patron of same bar as defendant                              
           (07)   Third party social relationship (e.g. victim knows someone   
                  who knows defendant and would recognize defendant)           
           (19)   Other acquaintance (SPECIFY)                                 
                                                                               
     (F) Legitimate Business Relationship (implies frequency or longevity)     
                                                                               
           (01)   Current co-worker/business associate                         
           (02)   Former co-worker/business associate                          
           (03)   Employer                                                     
           (04)   Employee                                                     
           (05)   Landlord                                                     
           (06)   Tenant                                                       
           (19)   Other legitimate business relationship                       
                  (SPECIFY)                                                    
                                                                               
     (G) Illegitimate business-drug business relationship                      
                                                                               
           (01)   Drug dealer                                                  
           (02)   Drug user/buyer                                              
           (03)   Drug business employee                                       
           (04)   Drug rival                                                   
           (05)   Drug partner                                                 
           (06)   Drug employer                                                
           (07)   Drug interloper                                              
           (08)   Current co-worker                                            
           (09)   Former co-worker                                             
           (19)   Other drug business relationship                             
                  (SPECIFY)                                                    
                                                                               
     (H) Illegitimate business-other                                           
                                                                               
           (01)   Prostitute to a pimp                                         
           (02)   Prostitute to a client                                       
           (03)   Pimp                                                         
           (04)   Client of a prostitute                                       
           (19)   Other illegitimate business relationship                     
                  (SPECIFY)                                                    
                                                                               
1                                                                         87   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     (I) Illegitimate business--organized crime relationship                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Member of defendant's syndicate                              
           (02)   Member of syndicate--different from defendant                
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (J) "Juvenile" Gang Relationship                                          
                                                                               
           (01)   Rival gang member                                            
           (02)   Same gang member                                             
           (19)   Other gang relationship (SPECIFY)                            
                                                                               
     (K) Third Party Relationship (stranger)                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Bystander                                                    
           (02)   Mediator/Intervenor                                          
           (03)   Antagonist                                                   
           (04)   Social relationship (e.g., victim knows                      
                  someone who knows defendant, but victim would                
                  not recognize defendant)                                     
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (L) Stranger relationship                                                 
                                                                               
           (01)   Security guard                                               
           (02)   Police                                                       
           (03)   Pedestrian (to motorist)                                     
           (04)   Motorist                                                     
           (05)   Heterosexual pick-up                                         
           (06)   Homosexual pick-up                                           
           (07)   Felony victim                                                
           (08)   Felon (reverse felony situation)                             
           (09)   Business proprietor/worker                                   
           (10)   Patron of same bar as defendant                              
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (M) Other and Unknown                                                     
                                                                               
           (01)  Other (SPECIFY)                                               
           (99)  Unknown                                                       
                                                                               
     3.   Circumstance of the homicide                                         
     [CIRCUM]                                                                  
                                                                               
     (A) Homicide committed with another felony                                
                                                                               
          Felony-murder                                                        
           (01)   Robbery                                                      
           (02)   Burglary                                                     
           (03)   Sexual assault                                               
           (04)   Arson                                                        
           (05)   Kidnapping                                                   
           (06)   Escape                                                       
          Other felony                                                         
1     88                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (07)   Larceny                                                      
           (08)   Auto theft                                                   
           (09)   Other sex offense                                            
           (10)   Homosexual prostitution (PRETEXT FOR ROBBERY)                
           (11)   Heterosexual prostitution (PRETEXT FOR ROBBERY)              
           (12)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
          Suspected felony                                                     
           (13)   SPECIFY                                                      
                                                                               
     (B) Issue Oriented Dispute                                                
                                                                               
           (01)   Romantic triangle                                            
           (02)   Property/money                                               
           (03)   Drugs (users dispute over drugs or paraphernalia)            
           (04)   Business transaction/grievance                               
           (05)   Redress of insult/personal honor                             
           (06)   Matters of opinion                                           
           (07)   Racial/ethnic clash                                          
           (08)   Jealousy                                                     
           (09)   Traffic dispute                                              
           (10)   Issue unknown                                                
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (C) Domestic/Personal Dispute                                             
                                                                               
           (20)   Lover/spouse quarrel                                         
           (21)   Domestic quarrel (other family)                              
           (22)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (D) Situational Disputes                                                  
                                                                               
           (30)   Barroom dispute/brawl                                        
           (31)   Legitimate recreation                                        
           (32)   Illegitimate recreation (gambling, cock                      
                  fighting, etc.)                                              
           (33)   Illegitimate recreation (drugs)                              
           (34)   "Street" fight                                               
           (35)   Random "street" encounter                                    
           (39)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (E) Homicide was the by-product of criminal business activity             
                                                                               
          Drug business                                                        
           (01)   Turf battle                                                  
           (02)   Bad deal/bad drugs                                           
           (03)   Money owed                                                   
           (04)   Revenge for acting as police informant                       
           (05)   Punishment for skimming drugs/money                          
           (06)   Stealing drugs/drug money                                    
           (07)   Dispute over drugs                                           
           (08)   Drug manufacture                                             
           (09)   Drug purchase/sale scam                                      
           (10)   One of the above but can't distinguish                       
           (19)   Other drug business (SPECIFY)                                
1                                                                         89   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
          Suspected drug business                                              
           (20)   SPECIFY                                                      
          Other criminal business activities                                   
           (30)   Prostitution                                                 
           (39)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
          Suspected other criminal business                                    
           (40)   SPECIFY                                                      
                                                                               
     (F) Homicide involved "juvenile" organized gangs                          
                                                                               
          Gang activities                                                      
           (01)   Turf battle between rival gangs                              
           (02)   Other gang fight between rival gang members                  
           (03)   Gang fight between members of same gang                      
           (04)   Drive-by shooting                                            
           (05)   One of the above but can't distinguish                       
           (19)   Other gang-related (SPECIFY)                                 
          Suspected gang activities                                            
           (20)   SPECIFY                                                      
                                                                               
     (G) Miscellaneous                                                         
                                                                               
           (01)   Child abuse                                                  
           (02)   Psychopath                                                   
           (03)   Gun/weapon accident                                          
           (04)   Other accident                                               
           (05)   Assist in self-murder                                        
           (06)   Mercy killing                                                
           (07)   Justifiable homicide by police officer                       
           (08)   Justifiable homicide by civilian                             
           (09)   Sniper                                                       
           (10)   Reverse felony (SPECIFY)                                     
           (11)   Unknown circumstance                                         
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     (H) Modifying circumstances                                               
                                                                               
           (01)   Pre-meditated                                                
           (02)   Murder-suicide                                               
           (03)   Self-defense                                                 
           (04)   Retaliation (time lag)                                       
           (05)   Mafia related                                                
           (06)   Gangland                                                     
           (07)   Third-party bystander                                        
           (08)   Third-party mediator/intervenor                              
           (09)   Third-party antagonist                                       
           (10)   Result of ongoing feud                                       
           (19)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
                                                                               
     4.   If circumstance code included drug business, specify drug            
          type. Code any that apply. Indicate primary, if appropriate.         
     [DRUGTY]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Heroin                                                       
1     90                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (02)   PCP                                                          
           (03)   Crack                                                        
           (04)   Cocaine                                                      
           (05)   Marijuana                                                    
           (06)   Barbiturate                                                  
           (07)   Methadone                                                    
           (08)   Amphetamine                                                  
           (09)   Hallucinogen                                                 
           (10)   Tranquilizer                                                 
           (11)   Other                                                        
           (12)   Unknown                                                      
                                                                               
     5.   Underlying cause of homicide was drug use.                           
     [DRUGREL]                                                                 
                                                                               
          Is there evidence to indicate that an underlying cause of            
          this homicide is drug use by the victim of defendant?                
                                                                               
          (For Drug Type, use codes from number 4 above.)                      
                                                                               
          Economic (to support drug habit)                                     
           Crime committed to obtain money or property to purchase drugs       
                                                                               
           (1)    By victim    ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
           (2)    By defendant ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
                                                                               
           Crime committed to directly obtain drugs for use                    
                                                                               
           (3)    By victim    ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
           (4)    By defendant ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
                                                                               
          Psychopharmacological (Defendant was not responsible for             
          his/her actions.)                                                    
           Irrational behavior caused by ingestion of drugs                    
                                                                               
           (5)    By victim    ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
           (6)    By defendant ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
                                                                               
           Irrational behavior caused by withdrawal from drugs                 
                                                                               
           (7)    By victim    ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
           (8)    By defendant ___ Known ___ Sus. ___ Type                     
                                                                               
          Other Drug Use                                                       
                                                                               
           (9)    SPECIFY                                                      
                                                                               
          No Information     (99)                                              
                                                                               
     6.   Justifiable Homicide Circumstances (Code only if CIRCUM is           
          F-07 or F-08.)                                                       
     [JUSHOM]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Criminal attacked police officer and that officer            
1                                                                         91   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                  killed criminal                                              
           (02)   Criminal attacked police officer and criminal                
                  killed by another police officer                             
           (03)   Criminal attacked a civilian                                 
           (04)   Criminal attempted flight from a crime                       
           (05)   Criminal killed in commission of a crime                     
           (06)   Criminal resisted arrest                                     
           (99)   Unable to determine/not enough information                   
                                                                               
     7.   Method                                                               
     [METHOD]                                                                  
                                                                               
          Firearm                                                              
                                                                               
           (01)   Handgun                                                      
           (02)   Shotgun                                                      
           (03)   Rifle                                                        
           (04)   Machine gun/repeating                                        
           (05)   Other gun                                                    
                                                                               
          Other                                                                
                                                                               
           (06)   Knife                                                        
           (07)   Sharp instrument                                             
           (08)   Blunt instrument                                             
           (09)   Vehicle                                                      
           (10)   Personal weapon (hands, fists, feet, etc.)                   
           (11)   Drowning                                                     
           (12)   Asphyxiation                                                 
           (13)   Throw from window                                            
           (14)   Strangulation                                                
           (15)   Poison                                                       
           (16)   Explosives                                                   
           (17)   Fire                                                         
           (18)   Other                                                        
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     8.   Victim in Possession of Weapon                                       
     [VWEAP]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes                                                          
           (02)   Suspected                                                    
           (03)   No (Go to number 10)                                         
           (99)   No information (Go to number 10)                             
                                                                               
     9.   Victim's Weapon Type (Code all that apply.)                          
     [VWEAPTY]                                                                 
                                                                               
           (01)   Handgun                                                      
           (02)   Shotgun                                                      
           (03)   Rifle                                                        
           (04)   Machine gun                                                  
           (05)   Other gun                                                    
           (06)   Knife                                                        
1     92                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
           (07)   Sharp instrument                                             
           (08)   Blunt instrument                                             
           (09)   Other                                                        
           (10)   Unknown                                                      
                                                                               
     10.  Victim Provocation                                                   
     [VINVOLV]                                                                 
                                                                               
          Victim was first to physically attack defendant or                   
          brandish/threaten with weapon.                                       
                                                                               
           (01)   Physical attack                                              
           (02)   Brandish weapon                                              
           (03)   One of above, but cannot distinguish                         
           (04)   Suspected (SPECIFY)                                          
           (05)   No provocation                                               
           (99)   No/insufficient information                                  
                                                                               
     11.  Specific Offense Location-Type                                       
     [OFFLOC]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Victim residence                                             
           (02)   Offender residence                                           
           (03)   Victim-offender residence                                    
           (04)   Residence of mutual friend                                   
           (05)   Other private residence                                      
           (06)   Bar/nightclub                                                
           (07)   Restaurant                                                   
           (08)   Business establishment (store, bank, gas                     
                  station, etc.)                                               
           (09)   Workplace                                                    
           (10)   Motel/hotel                                                  
           (11)   Public building                                              
           (12)   Vacant building                                              
           (13)   Known drug locale (shooting gallery, crack house             
                  open-air market)                                             
           (14)   Common area of apartment building                            
           (15)   Street                                                       
           (16)   Parking lot                                                  
           (17)   Public park                                                  
           (18)   Public transportation                                        
           (19)   Vacant lot                                                   
           (20)   Vehicle                                                      
           (21)   Other (SPECIFY)                                              
           (99)   Unknown                                                      
                                                                               
     12.  Was actual homicide indoor or outdoor?                               
     [INOUT]                                                                   
                                                                               
           (01)   Indoor                                                       
           (02)   Outdoor                                                      
           (03)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     13.  Why was the victim on the scene?                                     
1                                                                         93   
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     [VSCENE]                                                                  
                                                                               
          Legitimate Activity                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   At home                                                      
           (02)   In transit                                                   
           (03)   At work                                                      
           (04)   Shopping/doing errands                                       
           (05)   Recreation (public place)                                    
           (06)   Recreation (private dwelling)                                
           (07)   Mediator/intervenor                                          
           (08)   Loitering                                                    
           (09)   Collecting debt                                              
           (10)   Settling dispute/seeking confrontation                       
           (11)   Driving around/joyriding                                     
           (12)   Casual sex                                                   
                                                                               
          Illegitimate Activity                                                
                                                                               
                                            Wholesale    Retail   Can't tell   
                                                                               
           (20)   Purchasing drugs          _________    ______   __________   
           (21)   Selling drugs             _________    ______   __________   
           (22)   Doing drugs               _________    ______   __________   
           (23)   Other drug business (SPECIFY) __________________________     
           (24)   Organized crime activity:     __________________________     
           (25)   Gang activity                                                
           (26)   Committing property crime                                    
           (27)   Committing crime against person                              
           (28)   Prostitution (seller)                                        
           (29)   Prostitution (buyer)                                         
           (30)   Other crime                                                  
                                                                               
          Other                                                                
                                                                               
           (40)   SPECIFY                                                      
           (99)   Unknown/no information                                       
                                                                               
     14.  Alcohol in victim                                                    
     [VALCOH]                                                                  
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes                                                          
           (02)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
     15.  Drugs in victim (For drug type, refer to list below.)                
     [VINDRUG]                                                                 
                                                                               
      (01)   Yes   Type _____                                                  
      (02)   No                                                                
      (99)   No information                                                    
                                                                               
     16.  Drugs or paraphernalia on victim (For drug type, refer to            
          list below.)                                                         
1     94                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
     [VONDRUG]                                                                 
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes   Type _____                                             
           (02)   No                                                           
           (99)   No information                                               
                                                                               
          Drug Type List                                                       
                                                                               
           (01)   Heroin                                                       
           (02)   PCP                                                          
           (03)   Crack                                                        
           (04)   Cocaine                                                      
           (05)   Marijuana                                                    
           (06)   Barbiturate                                                  
           (07)   Methadone                                                    
           (08)   Amphetamine                                                  
           (09)   Hallucinogen                                                 
           (10)   Tranquilizer                                                 
           (11)   Paraphernalia (rolling paprs, needles, vials,                
                  scales, etc.)                                                
           (12)   Other                                                        
           (20)   Unknown                                                      
                                                                               
     17.  Is there information in the case file to indicate victim has         
          a history of mental illness?                                         
     [VMI]                                                                     
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (SPECIFY)                                                
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
     18.  Is there information in the case file to indicate victim has         
          a history of drug/alcohol abuse?                                     
     [VDAB]                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01)   Yes (SPECIFY)                                                
           (02)   No                                                           
                                                                               
     19. Is there information in the case file to indicate victim was          
         a drug dealer?                                                        
     [DEAL)                                                                    
                                                                               
           (01) Yes (SPECIFY)                                                  
           (02) No                                                             
                                                                               
     20. Please provide a brief synopsis of the murder.                        
